The following sets forth attribution notices for third party software that may be contained in portions of the onAirVR Server.

--------

The following software may be included in this product: NVIDIA Software Developer Kits. This software contains the following license and notice below:

SOFTWARE DEVELOPER KITS, SAMPLES AND TOOLS LICENSE AGREEMENT
IMPORTANT – READ BEFORE DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING OR USING THE LICENSED SOFTWARE
 

READ CAREFULLY: This Software Developer Kits, Samples and Tools License Agreement ("Agreement”), made and entered into as of the time and date of click through action (“Effective Date”), is a legal agreement between you and NVIDIA Corporation ("NVIDIA") and governs the use of the following NVIDIA deliverables to the extent provided to you under this Agreement: API’s, sample source code, data sets and assets (examples include images, textures, models, scenes, videos, native API input/output files), header files, binary software and/or documentation (collectively, "Licensed Software"). By downloading, installing, copying, or otherwise using the Licensed Software, you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement. If you do NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT, DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY OR USE THE NVIDIA LICENSED SOFTWARE. IF YOU ARE ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT ON BEHALF OF A COMPANY OR OTHER LEGAL ENTITY, YOU REPRESENT THAT YOU HAVE THE LEGAL AUTHORITY TO BIND THE ENTITY TO THIS AGREEMENT, IN WHICH CASE “YOU” WILL MEAN THE ENTITY YOU REPRESENT. IF YOU DON’T HAVE SUCH AUTHORITY, OR IF YOU DON’T ACCEPT ALL THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, THEN NVIDIA IS UNWILLING TO LICENSE THE LICENSED SOFTWARE TO YOU, AND YOU MAY NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY OR USE IT.  

 

1. LICENSE.

1.1          License Grant. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, NVIDIA hereby grants you a nonexclusive, non-transferable, worldwide, revocable, limited, royalty-free, fully paid-up license to during the term of this Agreement:

(i) install, use and reproduce the Licensed Software delivered by NVIDIA plus make modifications and create derivative works of the sample source code software delivered by NVIDIA, provided that the software is executed only in hardware products as specified by NVIDIA in the accompanying documentation (such as release notes) as supported, to develop, test and service your products (each, a “Customer Product”) that are interoperable with supported hardware products. If the NVIDIA documentation is silent, the supported hardware consists of certain NVIDIA GPUs; and

(ii) sub-license and distribute in binary format the API library software and header files as delivered by NVIDIA and sample source code as delivered by NVIDIA or as modified by you, all as incorporated into a Customer Product for use by your recipients only in the hardware products specified by NVIDIA as supported, provided that: (a) all such distributions by you or your distribution channels are consistent with the terms of this Agreement; and (b) you must enter into enforceable agreements with your recipients that binds them to terms that are consistent with the terms set forth in this Agreement for their use of the software binaries, including (without limitation) terms relating to the license grant and license restrictions, confidentiality and protection of NVIDIA’s intellectual property rights in and to the software you distributed. You are liable for the distribution and the use of distributed software if you failed to comply or enforce the distribution requirements of this Agreement. You agree to notify NVIDIA in writing of any known or suspected use or distribution of the Licensed Software that are not in compliance with the terms of this Agreement.

 

1.2          Enterprise and Contractor Usage. Under this Agreement you may allow (i) your Enterprise employees, and (ii) individuals who work primarily for your Enterprise on a contractor basis and from your secure network (each a "Contractor") to access and use the Licensed Software pursuant to the terms in Section 1 solely to perform work on your behalf, provided further that with respect to Contractors: (i) you obtain a written agreement from the Contractor which contains terms and obligations with respect to access to or use of Licensed Software no less protective of NVIDIA than those set forth in this Agreement, and (ii) such Contractor’s access and use expressly excludes any sublicensing or distribution rights for the Licensed Software. You are responsible for the compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement by your Enterprise and Contractors. Any act or omission that if committed by you would constitute a breach of this Agreement shall be deemed to constitute a breach of this Agreement if committed by your Enterprise or Contractors. “Enterprise” means you or any company or legal entity for which you accepted the terms of this Agreement, and their subsidiaries of which your company or legal entity owns more than fifty percent (50%) of the issued and outstanding equity.

 

1.3          No Support. NVIDIA is under no obligation to provide support for the Licensed Software or to provide any error corrections or updates to the Licensed Software under this Agreement.

 

2. LIMITATIONS.

2.1          License Restrictions. Except as expressly authorized in this Agreement, you agree that you will not (nor allow third parties to): (i) copy and use software that was licensed to you for use in one or more devices in other unlicensed devices (provided that copies solely for backup purposes are allowed); (ii) reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble (except to the extent applicable laws specifically requires that such activities be permitted) or attempt to derive the source code, underlying ideas, algorithm or structure of software provided to you in object code form; (iii) sell, transfer, assign, distribute, rent, loan, lease, sublicense or otherwise make available the Licensed Software or its functionality to third parties (a) as an application services provider or service bureau, (b) by operating hosted/virtual system environments, (c) by hosting, time sharing or providing any other type of services, or (d) otherwise by means of the internet; (iv) modify, translate or otherwise create any modifications or derivative works of any of the Licensed Software; (v) remove, alter, cover or obscure any proprietary notice that appears on or with the Licensed Software or any copies thereof; (vi) use the Licensed Software, or allow its use, transfer, transmission or export in violation of any export control laws or regulations administered by the United States government; (vii) distribute, permit access to, or sublicense the Licensed Software as a stand-alone product; (viii) bypass, disable, circumvent or remove any form of copy protection, encryption, security or digital rights management or authentication mechanism used by NVIDIA in connection with the Licensed Software, or use the Licensed Software together with any authorization code, serial number, or other copy protection device not supplied by NVIDIA directly or through an authorized reseller; (ix) use the Licensed Software for the purpose of developing competing products or technologies or assisting a third party in such activities; (x) distribute any modification you make to software under or by reference to the same name as used by NVIDIA; or (xi) use the Licensed Software in any manner that would cause the Licensed Software to become subject to an Open Source License. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to give you a right to use, or otherwise obtain access to, any source code from which the software or any portion thereof is compiled or interpreted. “Open Source License” includes, without limitation, a software license that requires as a condition of use, modification, and/or distribution of such software that the software be (x) disclosed or distributed in source code form; (y) be licensed for the purpose of making derivative works; or (z) be redistributable at no charge.

 

2.2          Third Party License Obligations.  You acknowledge and agree that the Licensed Software may include or incorporate third party technology (collectively “Third Party Components”), which is provided for use in or with the software and not otherwise used separately. If the Licensed Software includes or incorporates Third Party Components, then the third-party pass-through terms and conditions (“Third Party Terms”) for the particular Third Party Component will be bundled with the software or otherwise made available online as indicated by NVIDIA and will be incorporated by reference into this Agreement. In the event of any conflict between the terms in this Agreement and the Third Party Terms, the Third Party Terms shall govern. Copyright to Third Party Components are held by the copyright holders indicated in the copyright notices indicated in the Third Party Terms.

 

Audio/Video Encoders and Decoders. You acknowledge and agree that it is your sole responsibility to obtain any additional third party licenses required to make, have made, use, have used, sell, import, and offer for sale your products or services that include or incorporate any Third Party Components and content relating to audio and/or video encoders and decoders from, including but not limited to, Microsoft, Thomson, Fraunhofer IIS, Sisvel S.p.A., MPEG-LA, and Coding Technologies as NVIDIA does not grant to you under this Agreement any necessary patent rights with respect to audio and/or video encoders and decoders.

 

2.3          Limited Rights. Your rights in the Licensed Software are limited to those expressly granted in Section 1 and no other licenses are granted whether by implication, estoppel or otherwise. NVIDIA reserves all other rights, title and interest in and to the Licensed Software not expressly granted to you under this Agreement.

 

3. CONFIDENTIALITY. Each party will not use the other party’s Confidential Information, except as necessary for the performance of this Agreement, and will not disclose such Confidential Information to any third party, except to NVIDIA personnel, you, your Enterprise and your Enterprise Contractors that have a need to know such Confidential Information for the performance of this Agreement, provided that each such personnel, employee and Contractor is subject to a written agreement that includes confidentiality obligations consistent with those set forth herein. Each party will use all reasonable efforts to maintain the confidentiality of all of the other party’s Confidential Information in its possession or control, but in no event less than the efforts that it ordinarily uses with respect to its own Confidential Information of similar nature and importance. The foregoing obligations will not restrict either party from disclosing the other party’s Confidential Information or the terms and conditions of this Agreement as required under applicable securities regulations or pursuant to the order or requirement of a court, administrative agency, or other governmental body, provided that the party required to make such a disclosure (i) gives reasonable notice to the other party to enable it to contest such order or requirement prior to its disclosure (whether through protective orders or otherwise), (ii) uses reasonable effort to obtain confidential treatment or similar protection to the fullest extent possible to avoid public disclosure, and (iii) discloses only the minimum amount of information necessary to comply with such requirements.

 

“Confidential Information” means the Licensed Software (unless made publicly available by NVIDIA without confidentiality obligations), and any NVIDIA business, marketing, pricing, research and development, know-how, technical, scientific, financial status, proposed new products or other information disclosed by NVIDIA to you which, at the time of disclosure, is designated in writing as confidential or proprietary (or like written designation), or orally identified as confidential or proprietary or is otherwise reasonably identifiable by parties exercising reasonable business judgment as confidential. Confidential Information does not and will not include information that: (i) is or becomes generally known to the public through no fault of or breach of this Agreement by the receiving party; (ii) is rightfully known by the receiving party at the time of disclosure without an obligation of confidentiality; (iii) is independently developed by the receiving party without use of the disclosing party’s Confidential Information; or (iv) is rightfully obtained by the receiving party from a third party without restriction on use or disclosure.

 

4. OWNERSHIP AND FEEDBACK.

4.1          Ownership of Licensed Software. The Licensed Software, and the respective intellectual property rights therein, is and will remain the sole and exclusive property of NVIDIA and its licensors, whether the Licensed Software is separate from or combined with any other products or materials. You shall not knowingly engage in any act or omission that would impair NVIDIA’s and/or its licensors’ intellectual property rights in the Licensed Software or any other materials, information, processes or subject matter proprietary to NVIDIA. NVIDIA’s licensors are intended third party beneficiaries with the right to enforce provisions of this Agreement with respect to their Confidential Information and/or intellectual property rights.

 

4.2          Modifications. You hold all rights, title and interest in and to the modifications to and derivative works of the NVIDIA sample source code software that you create as permitted hereunder, subject to NVIDIA’s underlying intellectual property rights in and to the NVIDIA software; provided, however that you grant NVIDIA and its affiliates an irrevocable, perpetual, nonexclusive, worldwide, royalty-free paid-up license to make, have made, use, have used, reproduce, sell, license, distribute, sublicense, transfer and otherwise commercialize modifications and derivative works including (without limitation) with the Licensed Software or other NVIDIA products, technologies or materials.

 

4.3          Feedback. You have no obligation to provide Feedback to NVIDIA. However, NVIDIA and its affiliates may use and include any Feedback that you provide to improve the Licensed Software or other NVIDIA products, technologies or materials. Accordingly, if you provide Feedback, you agree that NVIDIA and its affiliates may at their option, and may permit its licensees, to make, have made, use, have used, reproduce, sell, license, distribute, sublicense, transfer and otherwise commercialize the Feedback in the Licensed Software or in other products, technologies or materials without the payment of any royalties or fees to you. All Feedback becomes the sole property of NVIDIA and may be used in any manner NVIDIA sees fit, and you hereby assign to NVIDIA all of your right, title and interest in and to any Feedback. NVIDIA has no obligation to respond to Feedback or to incorporate Feedback into the Licensed Software. “Feedback” means any and all suggestions, feature requests, comments or other feedback relating to the Licensed Software, including possible enhancements or modifications thereto.

 

5. NO WARRANTIES. THE LICENSED SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY NVIDIA “AS IS” AND “WITH ALL FAULTS,” AND NVIDIA EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND OR NATURE, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF OPERABILITY, CONDITION, VALUE, ACCURACY OF DATA, OR QUALITY, AS WELL AS ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, SYSTEM INTEGRATION, WORKMANSHIP, SUITABILITY, NON-INGRINGEMENT, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR THE ABSENCE OF ANY DEFECTS THEREIN, WHETHER LATENT OR NO WARRANTY IS MADE BY NVIDIA ON THE BASIS OF TRADE USAGE, COURSE OF DEALING OR COURSE OF TRADE. NVIDIA DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE LICENSED SOFTWARE WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS OR THAT THE OPERATION THEREOF WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE, OR THAT ALL ERRORS WILL BE CORRECTED. YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT NVIDIA’S OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT ARE FOR THE BENEFIT OF YOU ONLY. Nothing in this warranty section affects any statutory rights of consumers or other customers to the extent that they cannot be waived or limited by contract.

 

6. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW NVIDIA SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (SUCH AS, WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOST PROFITS, LOSS OF USE, LOSS OF DATA OR LOSS OF GOODWILL), OR THE COSTS OF PROCURING SUBSTITUTE PRODUCTS, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE LICENSED SOFTWARE, WHETHER SUCH LIABILITY ARISES FROM ANY CLAIM BASED UPON BREACH OF CONTRACT, BREACH OF WARRANTY, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), PRODUCT LIABILITY OR ANY OTHER CAUSE OF ACTION OR THEORY OF LIABILITY. IN NO EVENT WILL NVIDIA’S TOTAL CUMULATIVE LIABILITY UNDER OR ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT EXCEED THE GREATER OF THE NET AMOUNT NVIDIA RECEIVED FOR YOUR USE OF THE LICENSED SOFTWARE ONE HUNDRED U.S. DOLLARS (US $100). THE NATURE OF THE LIABILITY, THE NUMBER OF CLAIMS OR SUITS OR THE NUMBER OF PARTIES WITHIN YOUR ENTERPRISE THAT ACCEPTED THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL NOT ENLARGE OR EXTEND THIS LIMIT. THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS SHALL APPLY REGARDLESS OF WHETHER NVIDIA OR ITS LICENSORS HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES AND REGARDLESS OF WHETHER ANY REMEDY FAILS ITS ESSENTIAL PURPOSE.

 

7. TERM AND TERMINATION. This Agreement and your licenses hereunder shall become effective upon the Effective Date and shall remain in effect unless and until terminated as follows: (i) automatically if you breach any of the terms of this Agreement; or (ii) by either party upon written notice if the other party becomes the subject of a voluntary or involuntary petition in bankruptcy or any proceeding relating to insolvency, receivership, liquidation or composition for the benefit of creditors, if that petition or proceeding is not dismissed with prejudice within sixty (60) days after filing, or if a party ceases to do business; (iii) by you, upon ceasing to use the Licensed Software provided under this Agreement; or (iv) by NVIDIA upon written notice if you commence or participate in any legal proceeding against NVIDIA, with respect to the Licensed Software that is the subject of the proceeding during the pendency of such legal proceeding. Termination of this Agreement shall not release the parties from any liability which, at the time of termination, has already accrued or which thereafter may accrue with respect to any act or omission before termination, or from any obligation which is expressly stated in this Agreement to survive termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the party terminating this Agreement shall incur no additional liability merely by virtue of such Termination of this Agreement regardless of cause or nature shall be without prejudice to any other rights or remedies of the parties and shall be without liability for any loss or damage occasioned thereby. Upon any expiration or termination of this Agreement (i) you must promptly discontinue use of the Licensed Software, and (ii) you must promptly destroy or return to NVIDIA all copies of the Licensed Software and all portions thereof in your possession or control, and each party will promptly destroy or return to the other all of the other party’s Confidential Information within its possession or control, provided that your prior distributions in accordance with this Agreement are not affected by the expiration or termination of this Agreement. Upon written request, you will certify in writing that you have complied with your obligations under this section. Sections 2 through 8 will survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement for any reason.

 

8. MISCELLANEOUS.

8.1         NVIDIA Entities. NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries, including, but not limited to, NVIDIA Singapore Pte Ltd., have agreed to their respective rights and obligations regarding the distribution of the Licensed Software and the performance of obligations related to the Licensed Software. Ordering and delivery shall be with the NVIDIA entity with distribution rights for the geographic region in which the Licensed Software will be used, as communicated by NVIDIA to you.

 

8.2          Audit. During the term of this Agreement and for a period of three (3) years thereafter, you will maintain complete and accurate books and records regarding use of the Licensed Software and your performance and administration of this Agreement.  During such period and upon written notice to you, NVIDIA or its authorized third party auditors subject to confidentiality obligations will have the right to inspect and audit your Enterprise books and records for the purpose of confirming your compliance with the terms of this Agreement. Any such inspection and audit will be conducted during regular business hours, in a manner that minimizes interference with your normal business activities, and no more frequent than annually unless non-compliance was previously found. If such an inspection and audit reveals an underpayment of any amounts payable to NVIDIA, then you will promptly remit the full amount of such underpayment to NVIDIA, including interest that will accrue (without the requirement of a notice) at the lower of 1.5% per month or the highest rate permissible by law. If the underpaid amount exceeds five percent (5%) of the amounts payable to NVIDIA for the period audited and/or such an inspection and audit reveals a material non-conformance with the terms of this Agreement, then you will also pay NVIDIA’s reasonable costs of conducting the inspection and audit. Further, you agree that the party delivering the Licensed Software to you may collect and disclose to NVIDIA (subject to confidentiality obligations) information for NVIDIA to verify your compliance with the terms of this Agreement including (without limitation) information regarding your usage of the Licensed Software.

 

8.3          Trademarks. You are granted no rights to use any of NVIDIA's trademarks under this Agreement. NVIDIA's trademarks include company names, product or service names, marks, logos, designs and trade dress. You may not remove, alter, or add to any of NVIDIA's trademarks that appear in or as part of the Licensed Software.

 

8.4          Indemnity. You agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless NVIDIA and its affiliates, and their respective employees, contractors, agents, officers and directors, from and against any and all claims, damages, obligations, losses, liabilities, costs or debt, fines, restitutions and expenses (including but not limited to attorney’s fees and costs incident to establishing the right of indemnification) arising out of or related to you and your Enterprise, and their respective employees, contractors, agents, officers and directors: (i) use of a Licensed Software with any system or application where the use or failure of such system or application can reasonably be expected to threaten or result in personal injury, death, or catastrophic loss including, for example, use in connection with any nuclear, avionics, navigation, military, medical, life support or other life critical application; (ii) violation of any third party right, including without limitation any right of privacy or intellectual property rights; (iii) failure to comply with any applicable export and import laws, rules or regulations; or (iv) negligence or willful misconduct.

 

8.5          Injunctive Relief. The parties agree that a breach of any of the promises or agreements contained in this Agreement may result in irreparable and continuing injury for which monetary damages would not be an adequate remedy and therefore the parties are entitled to seek injunctive relief as well as such other and further relief as may be appropriate.

 

8.6          Waiver. The failure by either party to enforce its rights under this Agreement at any time for any period will not constitute a waiver of future enforcement of that right or any other right. Any waiver will be effective only if in writing and signed by duly authorized representatives of each party.

 

8.7          Severability. If for any reason a court of competent jurisdiction finds any provision of this Agreement invalid or unenforceable, that provision of this Agreement will be enforced to the maximum extent permissible so as to effect the intent of the parties, and the other provisions of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect.

 

8.8          U.S. Government Legend. You agree and certify that you will comply with all laws, regulations, rules, and other requirements applicable to transaction(s) with any government(s) occurring pursuant to this Agreement and all related matters. The Licensed Software has been developed entirely at private expense and is “commercial items” consisting of “commercial software” and “commercial software documentation” provided with RESTRICTED RIGHTS. Use, duplication or disclosure by the U.S. Government or a U.S. Government subcontractor is subject to the restrictions set forth in this Agreement under which Licensed Software was obtained pursuant to DFARS 227.7202-3(a) or as set forth in subparagraphs (c)(1) and (2) of the Commercial Computer Software - Restricted Rights clause at FAR 52.227-19, as applicable. Contractor/manufacturer is NVIDIA, 2701 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, CA 95050.

 

8.9          Force Majeure.  Neither party will be responsible for any failure or delay in its performance under this Agreement to the extent due to causes beyond its reasonable control, including, but not limited to, acts of God, fire, flood, war, earthquake, environmental conditions, governmental action, acts of civil or military authority, riots, wars, sabotage, strikes, compliance with laws or regulations, strikes, lockouts or other serious labor disputes, or shortage of or inability to obtain material or equipment for so long as such event of force majeure continues in effect.

 

8.10        Export Control. You acknowledge that the Licensed Software, technology and related documentation described under this Agreement are subject to the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and economic sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).  You agree to comply with the EAR and OFAC regulations and all applicable international and national export and import laws. You agree not to export or re-export the Licensed Software, technology and related documentation to any destination requiring an export license or other approval under the EAR or OFAC regulations otherwise without first obtaining such export license or approval and NVIDIA’s permission. You will not, without prior governmental authorization, export or re-export NVIDIA Licensed Software, technology and related documentation, directly or indirectly, (i) to any end-user whom you know or have reason to know will utilize them in the design, development or production of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons, or rocket systems, space launch vehicles, and sounding rockets, or unmanned air vehicle systems; (ii) to any end-user who has been prohibited from participating in U.S. export transactions by any federal agency of the U.S. government; or (iii) to any countries that are subject to U.S. export restrictions (currently including, but not necessarily limited to, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, and Syria and the Region of Crimea). 

 

8.11        General. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereto and supersede all prior negotiations, conversations, or discussions between the parties relating to the subject matter hereto, oral or written, and all past dealing or industry custom. Any notice delivered by NVIDIA to you under this Agreement will be delivered via mail, email or fax. Any additional and/or conflicting terms and conditions on purchase order(s) or any other documents issued by you are null, void, and invalid. This Agreement and the rights and obligations hereunder may not be assigned by you, in whole or in part, including by merger, consolidation, dissolution, operation of law, or any other manner, without written consent of NVIDIA, and any purported assignment in violation of this provision shall be void and of no effect. Each party acknowledges and agrees that the other is an independent contractor in the performance of this Agreement, and each is solely responsible for all of its employees, agents, contractors, and labor costs and expenses arising in connection therewith. This Agreement will be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of Delaware and the United States without regard to the conflicts of law provisions thereof and without regard to the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods. The parties consent to the personal jurisdiction of the federal and state courts located in Santa Clara County, California. If one or more provisions of this Agreement are held to be unenforceable under applicable law, such provision shall be excluded from this Agreement and the balance of this Agreement shall be interpreted as if such provision were so excluded and shall be enforceable in accordance with its terms. Any amendment or waiver under this Agreement must be in writing and signed by representatives of both parties.

--------

The following software may be included in this product: NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit. This software contains the following license and notice below:

End User License Agreement
--------------------------


Preface
-------

The following contains specific license terms and conditions
for four separate NVIDIA products. By accepting this
agreement, you agree to comply with all the terms and
conditions applicable to the specific product(s) included
herein.


NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit


Description

The NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit provides command-line and graphical
tools for building, debugging and optimizing the performance
of applications accelerated by NVIDIA GPUs, runtime and math
libraries, and documentation including programming guides,
user manuals, and API references. The NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit
License Agreement is available in Chapter 1.


Default Install Location of CUDA Toolkit

Windows platform:

%ProgramFiles%\NVIDIA GPU Computing Toolkit\CUDA\v#.#

Linux platform:

/usr/local/cuda-#.#

Mac platform:

/Developer/NVIDIA/CUDA-#.#


NVIDIA CUDA Samples


Description

This package includes over 100+ CUDA examples that demonstrate
various CUDA programming principles, and efficient CUDA
implementation of algorithms in specific application domains.
The NVIDIA CUDA Samples License Agreement is available in
Chapter 2.


Default Install Location of CUDA Samples

Windows platform:

%ProgramData%\NVIDIA Corporation\CUDA Samples\v#.#

Linux platform:

/usr/local/cuda-#.#/samples

and

$HOME/NVIDIA_CUDA-#.#_Samples

Mac platform:

/Developer/NVIDIA/CUDA-#.#/samples


NVIDIA Driver


Description

This package contains the operating system driver and
fundamental system software components for NVIDIA GPUs. The
NVIDIA Driver License for the Windows platform is available in
Chapter 3, and the NVIDIA Driver License for the Linux and Mac
OSX platforms is available in Chapter 4.


NVIDIA Nsight Visual Studio Edition (Windows only)


Description

NVIDIA Nsight Development Platform, Visual Studio Edition is a
development environment integrated into Microsoft Visual
Studio that provides tools for debugging, profiling, analyzing
and optimizing your GPU computing and graphics applications.
The NVIDIA Nsight Visual Studio Edition License Agreement is
available in Chapter 5.


Default Install Location of Nsight Visual Studio Edition

Windows platform:

%ProgramFiles(x86)%\NVIDIA Corporation\Nsight Visual Studio Edition #.#


NVIDIA CUDA General Terms


Description

General terms that apply to all of the software components are
available in Chapter 6.


1. NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit License Agreement
----------------------------------------


Important Notice
----------------

READ CAREFULLY: This Software License Agreement ("Agreement")
for NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit, including computer software and
associated documentation ("Software"), is the Agreement which
governs use of the SOFTWARE of NVIDIA Corporation and its
subsidiaries ("NVIDIA") downloadable herefrom. By downloading,
installing, copying, or otherwise using the SOFTWARE, You (as
defined below) agree to be bound by the terms of this
Agreement. If You do not agree to the terms of this Agreement,
do not download the SOFTWARE.


Recitals
--------

Use of NVIDIA's SOFTWARE requires three elements: the
SOFTWARE, an NVIDIA GPU or application processor ("NVIDIA
Hardware"), and a computer system. The SOFTWARE is protected
by copyright laws and international copyright treaties, as
well as other intellectual property laws and treaties. The
SOFTWARE is not sold, and instead is only licensed for Your
use, strictly in accordance with this Agreement. The NVIDIA
Hardware is protected by various patents, and is sold, but
this Agreement does not cover the sale or use of such
hardware, since it may not necessarily be sold as a package
with the SOFTWARE. This Agreement sets forth the terms and
conditions of the SOFTWARE only.


1.1. Definitions


1.1.1. Licensee

"You", or "Your" shall mean the entity or individual that
downloads and uses the SOFTWARE.


1.1.2. Redistributable Software

"Redistributable Software" shall mean the redistributable
libraries referenced in Attachment A of this Agreement.


1.1.3. Software

"SOFTWARE" shall mean the deliverables provided pursuant to
this Agreement. SOFTWARE may be provided in either source or
binary form, at NVIDIA's discretion.


1.2. Grant of License


1.2.1. Rights and Limitations of Grant

Provided that Licensee complies with the terms of this
Agreement, NVIDIA hereby grants Licensee the following
limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-sublicensable
(except as expressly permitted otherwise for Redistributable
Software in Section 1.2.1.1 and Section 1.2.1.3 of this
Agreement) right to use the SOFTWARE -- and, if the SOFTWARE
is provided in source form, to compile the SOFTWARE -- with
the following limitations:


1.2.1.1. Redistribution Rights

Licensee may transfer, redistribute, and sublicense certain
files of the Redistributable SOFTWARE, as defined in
Attachment A of this Agreement, provided, however, that (a)
the Redistributable SOFTWARE shall be distributed solely in
binary form to Licensee's licensees ("Customers") only as a
component of Licensee's own software products (each, a
"Licensee Application"); (b) Licensee shall design the
Licensee Application such that the Redistributable SOFTWARE
files are installed only in a private (non-shared) directory
location that is used only by the Licensee Application; (c)
Licensee shall obtain each Customer's written or clickwrap
agreement to the license terms under a written, legally
enforceable agreement that has the effect of protecting the
SOFTWARE and the rights of NVIDIA under terms no less
restrictive than this Agreement.


1.2.1.2. Usage Rights

Licensee may install and use multiple copies of the SOFTWARE
on a shared computer or concurrently on different computers,
and make multiple back-up copies of the SOFTWARE, solely for
Licensee's use within Licensee's Enterprise. "Enterprise"
shall mean individual use by Licensee or any legal entity
(such as a corporation or university) and the subsidiaries it
owns by more than 50 percent.


1.2.1.3. Further Redistribution Rights

Subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement, Licensee
may authorize Customers to further redistribute the
Redistributable SOFTWARE that such Customers receive as part
of the Licensee Application, solely in binary form, provided,
however, that Licensee shall require in their standard
software license agreements with Customers that all such
redistributions must be made pursuant to a license agreement
that has the effect of protecting the SOFTWARE and the rights
of NVIDIA whose terms and conditions are at least as
restrictive as those in the applicable Licensee software
license agreement covering the Licensee Application. For
avoidance of doubt, termination of this Agreement shall not
affect rights previously granted by Licensee to its Customers
under this Agreement to the extent validly granted to
Customers under Section 1.2.1.1.


1.2.1.4. Linux/FreeBSD Exception

Notwithstanding the foregoing terms of Section 1.2.1.2,
Section 1.2.1.1 and Section 1.2.1.3, SOFTWARE designed
exclusively for use on the Linux or FreeBSD operating systems,
or other operating systems derived from the source code to
these operating systems, may be copied and redistributed,
provided that the binary files thereof are not modified in any
way (except for unzipping of compressed files).


1.2.1.5. Additional Licensing Obligations

Licensee acknowledges and agrees that its use of certain third
party components included with the SOFTWARE may be subject to
additional licensing terms and conditions as set forth or
referenced in Attachment B of this Agreement.


1.2.1.6. Limitations

No Reverse Engineering

If the SOFTWARE is provided in binary form, Licensee may not
reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the SOFTWARE, nor
attempt in any other manner to obtain the source code.

No Separation of Components

The SOFTWARE is licensed as a single product. Except as
authorized in this Agreement, Software component parts of the
Software may not be separated for use on more than one
computer, nor otherwise used separately from the other parts.

No Rental

Licensee may not rent or lease the SOFTWARE to someone else.

No Modifications

If the SOFTWARE is provided in source form, Licensee may not
modify or create derivative works of the SOFTWARE.


1.3. Term and Termination

This Agreement will continue in effect for two (2) years
("Initial Term") after Your initial download and use of the
SOFTWARE, subject to the exclusive right of NVIDIA to
terminate as provided herein. The term of this Agreement will
automatically renew for successive one (1) year renewal terms
after the Initial Term, unless either party provides to the
other party at least three (3) months prior written notice of
termination before the end of the applicable renewal term.

This Agreement will automatically terminate if Licensee fails
to comply with any of the terms and conditions hereof. In such
event, Licensee must destroy all copies of the SOFTWARE and
all of its component parts.


Defensive Suspension

If Licensee commences or participates in any legal proceeding
against NVIDIA, then NVIDIA may, in its sole discretion,
suspend or terminate all license grants and any other rights
provided under this Agreement during the pendency of such
legal proceedings.


1.4. Copyright

All rights, title, interest and copyrights in and to the
SOFTWARE (including but not limited to all images,
photographs, animations, video, audio, music, text, and other
information incorporated into the SOFTWARE), the accompanying
printed materials, and any copies of the SOFTWARE, are owned
by NVIDIA, or its suppliers. The SOFTWARE is protected by
copyright laws and international treaty provisions.
Accordingly, Licensee is required to treat the SOFTWARE like
any other copyrighted material, except as otherwise allowed
pursuant to this Agreement and that it may make one copy of
the SOFTWARE solely for backup or archive purposes.

RESTRICTED RIGHTS NOTICE. Software has been developed entirely
at private expense and is commercial computer software
provided with RESTRICTED RIGHTS. Use, duplication or
disclosure by the U.S. Government or a U.S. Government
subcontractor is subject to the restrictions set forth in the
Agreement under which Software was obtained pursuant to DFARS
227.7202-3(a) or as set forth in subparagraphs (c)(1) and (2)
of the Commercial Computer Software - Restricted Rights clause
at FAR 52.227-19, as applicable. Contractor/manufacturer is
NVIDIA, 2701 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, CA 95050.


1.5. Applicable Law

This Agreement shall be deemed to have been made in, and shall
be construed pursuant to, the laws of the State of Delaware.
The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the
International Sale of Goods is specifically disclaimed. The
courts of Santa Clara County, California shall have exclusive
jurisdiction and venue over any dispute arising out of or
relating to this Agreement.


1.6. Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitations on Liability


1.6.1. No Warranties

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE
SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND NVIDIA AND ITS SUPPLIERS
DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NONINFRINGEMENT.


1.6.2. No Liability for Consequential Damages

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT
SHALL NVIDIA OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
(INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS
PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION,
OR ANY OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS) ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR
INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NVIDIA HAS BEEN ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.


1.6.3. No Support

NVIDIA has no obligation to support or to provide any updates
of the Software.


1.7. Miscellaneous


1.7.1. Feedback

Notwithstanding any Non-Disclosure Agreement executed by and
between the parties, the parties agree that in the event
Licensee or NVIDIA provides Feedback (as defined below) to the
other party on how to design, implement, or improve the
SOFTWARE or Licensee's product(s) for use with the SOFTWARE,
the following terms and conditions apply the Feedback:


1.7.1.1. Exchange of Feedback

Both parties agree that neither party has an obligation to
give the other party any suggestions, comments or other
feedback, whether verbally or in written or source code form,
relating to (i) the SOFTWARE; (ii) Licensee's products; (iii)
Licensee's use of the SOFTWARE; or (iv)
optimization/interoperability of Licensee's product with the
SOFTWARE (collectively defined as "Feedback"). In the event
either party provides Feedback to the other party, the party
receiving the Feedback may use any Feedback that the other
party voluntarily provides to improve the (i) SOFTWARE or
other related NVIDIA technologies, respectively for the
benefit of NVIDIA; or (ii) Licensee's product or other related
Licensee technologies, respectively for the benefit of
Licensee. Accordingly, if either party provides Feedback to
the other party, both parties agree that the other party and
its respective licensees may freely use, reproduce, license,
distribute, and otherwise commercialize the Feedback in the
(i) SOFTWARE or other related technologies; or (ii) Licensee's
products or other related technologies, respectively, without
the payment of any royalties or fees.


1.7.1.2. Residual Rights

Licensee agrees that NVIDIA shall be free to use any general
knowledge, skills and experience, (including, but not limited
to, ideas, concepts, know-how, or techniques) ("Residuals"),
contained in the (i) Feedback provided by Licensee to NVIDIA;
(ii) Licensee's products shared or disclosed to NVIDIA in
connection with the Feedback; or (c) Licensee's confidential
information voluntarily provided to NVIDIA in connection with
the Feedback, which are retained in the memories of NVIDIA's
employees, agents, or contractors who have had access to such
Residuals. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, NVIDIA's employees, agents, or contractors shall
not be prevented from using Residuals as part of such
employee's, agent's or contractor's general knowledge, skills,
experience, talent, and/or expertise. NVIDIA shall not have
any obligation to limit or restrict the assignment of such
employees, agents or contractors or to pay royalties for any
work resulting from the use of Residuals.


1.7.1.3. Disclaimer of Warranty

FEEDBACK FROM EITHER PARTY IS PROVIDED FOR THE OTHER PARTY'S
USE "AS IS" AND BOTH PARTIES DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS,
IMPLIED AND STATUTORY INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NONINFRINGEMENT. BOTH PARTIES DO NOT
REPRESENT OR WARRANT THAT THE FEEDBACK WILL MEET THE OTHER
PARTY'S REQUIREMENTS OR THAT THE OPERATION OR IMPLEMENTATION
OF THE FEEDBACK WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE.


1.7.1.4. No Liability for Consequential Damages

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT
SHALL EITHER PARTY OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
(INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS
PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION,
OR ANY OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS) ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR
INABILITY TO USE THE FEEDBACK, EVEN IF THE OTHER PARTY HAS
BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.


1.7.2. Freedom of Action

Licensee agrees that this Agreement is nonexclusive and NVIDIA
may currently or in the future be developing software, other
technology or confidential information internally, or
receiving confidential information from other parties that
maybe similar to the Feedback and Licensee's confidential
information (as provided in Section 1.7.1.2 above), which may
be provided to NVIDIA in connection with Feedback by Licensee.
Accordingly, Licensee agrees that nothing in this Agreement
will be construed as a representation or inference that NVIDIA
will not develop, design, manufacture, acquire, market
products, or have products developed, designed, manufactured,
acquired, or marketed for NVIDIA, that compete with the
Licensee's products or confidential information.


1.7.3. No Implied Licenses

Under no circumstances should anything in this Agreement be
construed as NVIDIA granting by implication, estoppel or
otherwise, (i) a license to any NVIDIA product or technology
other than the SOFTWARE; or (ii) any additional license rights
for the SOFTWARE other than the licenses expressly granted in
this Agreement.


1.7.4. 

If any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with, or
cannot be fully enforced under, the law, such provision will
be construed as limited to the extent necessary to be
consistent with and fully enforceable under the law. This
Agreement is the final, complete and exclusive agreement
between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof, and
supersedes all prior or contemporaneous understandings and
agreements relating to such subject matter, whether oral or
written. This Agreement may only be modified in writing signed
by an authorized officer of NVIDIA. Licensee agrees that it
will not ship, transfer or export the SOFTWARE into any
country, or use the SOFTWARE in any manner, prohibited by the
United States Bureau of Industry and Security or any export
laws, restrictions or regulations.


1.7.5. 

The parties agree that the following sections of the Agreement
will survive the termination of the License: Section 1.2.1.4,
Section 1.4, Section 1.5, Section 1.6, and Section 1.7.


1.8. Attachment A


Redistributable Software

In connection with Section 1.2.1.1 of this Agreement, the
following files may be redistributed with software
applications developed by Licensee, including certain
variations of these files that have version number or
architecture specific information embedded in the file name -
as an example only, for release version 6.0 of the 64-bit
Windows software, the file cudart64_60.dll is redistributable.

Component : CUDA Runtime
  Windows : cudart.dll, cudart_static.lib, cudadevrt.lib
  Mac OSX : libcudart.dylib, libcudart_static.a, libcudadevrt.a
  Linux   : libcudart.so, libcudart_static.a, libcudadevrt.a
  Android : libcudart.so, libcudart_static.a, libcudadevrt.a

Component : CUDA FFT Library
  Windows : cufft.dll, cufftw.dll
  Mac OSX : libcufft.dylib, libcufft_static.a, libcufftw.dylib, libcufftw_static.a
  Linux   : libcufft.so, libcufft_static.a, libcufftw.so, libcufftw_static.a
  Android : libcufft.so, libcufft_static.a, libcufftw.so, libcufftw_static.a

Component : CUDA BLAS Library
  Windows : cublas.dll, cublas_device.lib
  Mac OSX : libcublas.dylib, libcublas_static.a, libcublas_device.a
  Linux   : libcublas.so, libcublas_static.a, libcublas_device.a
  Android : libcublas.so, libcublas_static.a, libcublas_device.a

Component : NVIDIA "Drop-in" BLAS Library
  Windows : nvblas.dll
  Mac OSX : libnvblas.dylib
  Linux   : libnvblas.so

Component : CUDA Sparse Matrix Library
  Windows : cusparse.dll
  Mac OSX : libcusparse.dylib, libcusparse_static.a
  Linux   : libcusparse.so, libcusparse_static.a
  Android : libcusparse.so, libcusparse_static.a

Component : CUDA Linear Solver Library
  Windows : cusolver.dll
  Mac OSX : libcusolver.dylib, libcusolver_static.a
  Linux   : libcusolver.so, libcusolver_static.a
  Android : libcusolver.so, libcusolver_static.a

Component : CUDA Random Number Generation Library
  Windows : curand.dll
  Mac OSX : libcurand.dylib, libcurand_static.a
  Linux   : libcurand.so, libcurand_static.a
  Android : libcurand.so, libcurand_static.a

Component : NVIDIA Performance Primitives Library
  Windows : nppc.dll, nppi.dll, npps.dll
  Mac OSX : libnppc.dylib, libnppi.dylib, libnpps.dylib, libnppc_static.a, libnpps_static.a, libnppi_static.a
  Linux   : libnppc.so, libnppi.so, libnpps.so, libnppc_static.a, libnpps_static.a, libnppi_static.a
  Android : libnppc.so, libnppi.so, libnpps.so, libnppc_static.a, libnpps_static.a, libnppi_static.a

Component : Internal common library required for statically linking to cuBLAS, cuSPARSE, cuFFT, cuRAND and NPP
  Mac OSX : libculibos.a
  Linux   : libculibos.a

Component : NVIDIA Runtime Compilation Library
  Windows : nvrtc.dll, nvrtc-builtins.dll
  Mac OSX : libnvrtc.dylib, libnvrtc-builtins.dylib
  Linux   : libnvrtc.so, libnvrtc-builtins.so

Component : NVIDIA Optimizing Compiler Library
  Windows : nvvm.dll
  Mac OSX : libnvvm.dylib
  Linux   : libnvvm.so

Component : NVIDIA Common Device Math Functions Library
  Windows : libdevice.compute_20.bc, libdevice.compute_30.bc, libdevice.compute_35.bc
  Mac OSX : libdevice.compute_20.bc, libdevice.compute_30.bc, libdevice.compute_35.bc
  Linux   : libdevice.compute_20.bc, libdevice.compute_30.bc, libdevice.compute_35.bc

Component : CUDA Occupancy Calculation Header Library
  All     : cuda_occupancy.h

Component : Profiling Tools Interface Library
  Windows : cupti.dll
  Mac OSX : libcupti.dylib
  Linux   : libcupti.so
      


1.9. Attachment B


Additional Licensing Obligations

The following third party components included in the SOFTWARE
are licensed to Licensee pursuant to the following terms and
conditions:

  1. Licensee's use of the GDB third party component is
    subject to the terms and conditions of GNU GPL v3:

    This product includes copyrighted third-party software licensed
    under the terms of the GNU General Public License v3 ("GPL v3").
    All third-party software packages are copyright by their respective
    authors. GPL v3 terms and conditions are hereby incorporated into
    the Agreement by this reference:     http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt

    Consistent with these licensing requirements, the software
    listed below is provided under the terms of the specified
    open source software licenses. To obtain source code for
    software provided under licenses that require
    redistribution of source code, including the GNU General
    Public License (GPL) and GNU Lesser General Public License
    (LGPL), contact oss-requests@nvidia.com. This offer is
    valid for a period of three (3) years from the date of the
    distribution of this product by NVIDIA CORPORATION.

    Component          License
    CUDA-GDB           GPL v3  

  2. Licensee represents and warrants that any and all third
    party licensing and/or royalty payment obligations in
    connection with Licensee's use of the H.264 video codecs
    are solely the responsibility of Licensee.

  3. Licensee's use of the Thrust library is subject to the
    terms and conditions of the Apache License Version 2.0.
    All third-party software packages are copyright by their
    respective authors. Apache License Version 2.0 terms and
    conditions are hereby incorporated into the Agreement by
    this reference.
    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html

    In addition, Licensee acknowledges the following notice:
    Thrust includes source code from the Boost Iterator,
    Tuple, System, and Random Number libraries.

    Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003
    . . . .
    
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or 
    organization obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying 
    documentation covered by this license (the "Software") to use, 
    reproduce, display, distribute, execute, and transmit the Software, 
    and to prepare derivative works of the Software, and to permit 
    third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to do so, all 
    subject to the following:
    
    The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, 
    including the above license grant, this restriction and the following 
    disclaimer, must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole 
    or in part, and all derivative works of the Software, unless such 
    copies or derivative works are solely in the form of machine-executable 
    object code generated by a source language processor.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
    EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF 
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND 
    NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR 
    ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OR 
    OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR 
    OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.  

  4. Licensee's use of the LLVM third party component is
    subject to the following terms and conditions:

    ======================================================
    LLVM Release License
    ======================================================
    University of Illinois/NCSA
    Open Source License
    
    Copyright (c) 2003-2010 University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
    All rights reserved.
    
    Developed by:
    
        LLVM Team
    
        University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
    
        http://llvm.org
    
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
    of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to 
    deal with the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
    rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or 
    sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is 
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
    
    *  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, 
       this list of conditions and the following disclaimers.
    
    *  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimers in the 
       documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    
    *  Neither the names of the LLVM Team, University of Illinois at Urbana-
       Champaign, nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or
       promote products derived from this Software without specific prior 
       written permission.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL 
    THE CONTRIBUTORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR 
    OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
    ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS WITH THE SOFTWARE.  

  5. Licensee's use of the PCRE third party component is
    subject to the following terms and conditions:

    ------------
    PCRE LICENCE
    ------------
    PCRE is a library of functions to support regular expressions whose syntax
    and semantics are as close as possible to those of the Perl 5 language.
    Release 8 of PCRE is distributed under the terms of the "BSD" licence, as
    specified below. The documentation for PCRE, supplied in the "doc" 
    directory, is distributed under the same terms as the software itself. The
    basic library functions are written in C and are freestanding. Also 
    included in the distribution is a set of C++ wrapper functions, and a just-
    in-time compiler that can be used to optimize pattern matching. These are 
    both optional features that can be omitted when the library is built.
    
    THE BASIC LIBRARY FUNCTIONS
    ---------------------------
    Written by:       Philip Hazel
    Email local part: ph10
    Email domain:     cam.ac.uk
    University of Cambridge Computing Service,
    Cambridge, England.
    Copyright (c) 1997-2012 University of Cambridge
    All rights reserved.
    
    PCRE JUST-IN-TIME COMPILATION SUPPORT
    -------------------------------------
    Written by:       Zoltan Herczeg
    Email local part: hzmester
    Emain domain:     freemail.hu
    Copyright(c) 2010-2012 Zoltan Herczeg
    All rights reserved.
    
    STACK-LESS JUST-IN-TIME COMPILER
    --------------------------------
    Written by:       Zoltan Herczeg
    Email local part: hzmester
    Emain domain:     freemail.hu
    Copyright(c) 2009-2012 Zoltan Herczeg
    All rights reserved.
    
    THE C++ WRAPPER FUNCTIONS
    -------------------------
    Contributed by:   Google Inc.
    Copyright (c) 2007-2012, Google Inc.
    All rights reserved.
    
    THE "BSD" LICENCE
    -----------------
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
    
      * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, 
        this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    
      * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
        notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
        documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    
      * Neither the name of the University of Cambridge nor the name of Google 
        Inc. nor the names of their contributors may be used to endorse or 
        promote products derived from this software without specific prior 
        written permission.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
    AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
    IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
    ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE 
    LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
    CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF 
    SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS 
    INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN 
    CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) 
    ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE 
    POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  6. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or
    derived from code written by Vasily Volkov and are subject
    to the Modified Berkeley Software Distribution License as
    follows:

    Copyright (c) 2007-2009, Regents of the University of California
    
    All rights reserved.
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
          copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
          disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
          with the distribution.
        * Neither the name of the University of California, Berkeley nor
          the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote
          products derived from this software without specific prior
          written permission.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
    WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
    DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
    INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
    (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
    SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
    HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
    STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
    IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
    POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  7. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or
    derived from code written by Davide Barbieri and are
    subject to the Modified Berkeley Software Distribution
    License as follows:

    Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Davide Barbieri @ University of Rome Tor Vergata.
    
    All rights reserved.
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
          copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
          disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
          with the distribution.
        * The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
          products derived from this software without specific prior
          written permission.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
    WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
    DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
    INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
    (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
    SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
    HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
    STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
    IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
    POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  8. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were derived from
    code developed by the University of Tennessee and are
    subject to the Modified Berkeley Software Distribution
    License as follows:

    Copyright (c) 2010 The University of Tennessee.
    
    All rights reserved.
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
          copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
          disclaimer listed in this license in the documentation and/or
          other materials provided with the distribution.
        * Neither the name of the copyright holders nor the names of its
          contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
          from this software without specific prior written permission.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
    OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
    DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
    THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  9. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or
    derived from code written by Jonathan Hogg and are subject
    to the Modified Berkeley Software Distribution License as
    follows:

    Copyright (c) 2012, The Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC).
    
    All rights reserved.
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
          copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
          disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
          with the distribution.
        * Neither the name of the STFC nor the names of its contributors
          may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
          software without specific prior written permission.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE STFC BE
    LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
    CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
    SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
    BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
    WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
    OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
    IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  10. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or
    derived from code written by Ahmad M. Abdelfattah, David
    Keyes, and Hatem Ltaief, and are subject to the Apache
    License, Version 2.0, as follows:

     -- (C) Copyright 2013 King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
      Authors:
      Ahmad Abdelfattah (ahmad.ahmad@kaust.edu.sa)
      David Keyes (david.keyes@kaust.edu.sa)
      Hatem Ltaief (hatem.ltaief@kaust.edu.sa)
    
      Redistribution  and  use  in  source and binary forms, with or without
      modification,  are  permitted  provided  that the following conditions
      are met:
    
      * Redistributions  of  source  code  must  retain  the above copyright
        notice,  this  list  of  conditions  and  the  following  disclaimer.
      * Redistributions  in  binary  form must reproduce the above copyright
        notice,  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
        documentation  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
      * Neither  the  name of the King Abdullah University of Science and
        Technology nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse 
        or promote products derived from this software without specific prior 
        written permission.
    
      THIS  SOFTWARE  IS  PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
      ``AS IS''  AND  ANY  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
      LIMITED  TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
      A  PARTICULAR  PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
      HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
      SPECIAL,  EXEMPLARY,  OR  CONSEQUENTIAL  DAMAGES  (INCLUDING,  BUT NOT
      LIMITED  TO,  PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
      DATA,  OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
      THEORY  OF  LIABILITY,  WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
      (INCLUDING  NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
      OF  THIS  SOFTWARE,  EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE  

  11. Some of the cuSPARSE library routines were written by or
    derived from code written by Li-Wen Chang and are subject
    to the NCSA Open Source License as follows:

    Copyright (c) 2012, University of Illinois.
    
    All rights reserved.
    
    Developed by: IMPACT Group, University of Illinois, http://impact.crhc.illinois.edu
    
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
    a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
    "Software"), to deal with the Software without restriction, including
    without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
    distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
    permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
    the following conditions:
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
          copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
          disclaimers in the documentation and/or other materials provided
          with the distribution.
        * Neither the names of IMPACT Group, University of Illinois, nor
          the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote
          products derived from this Software without specific prior
          written permission.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
    EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
    NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE CONTRIBUTORS OR COPYRIGHT
    HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
    IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR
    IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS WITH THE
    SOFTWARE.  

  12. Some of the cuRAND library routines were written by or
    derived from code written by Mutsuo Saito and Makoto
    Matsumoto and are subject to the following license:

    Copyright (c) 2009, 2010 Mutsuo Saito, Makoto Matsumoto and Hiroshima
    University. All rights reserved.
    
    Copyright (c) 2011 Mutsuo Saito, Makoto Matsumoto, Hiroshima
    University and University of Tokyo.  All rights reserved.
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
          copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
          disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
          with the distribution.
        * Neither the name of the Hiroshima University nor the names of
          its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
          derived from this software without specific prior written
          permission.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
    OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
    DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
    THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  13. Some of the cuRAND library routines were derived from
    code developed by D. E. Shaw Research and are subject to
    the following license:

    Copyright 2010-2011, D. E. Shaw Research.
    
    All rights reserved.
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
          copyright notice, this list of conditions, and the following
          disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
          with the distribution.
        * Neither the name of D. E. Shaw Research nor the names of its
          contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
          from this software without specific prior written permission.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
    OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
    DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
    THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  14. Licensee's use of the lz4 third party component is
    subject to the following terms and conditions:

    Copyright (C) 2011-2013, Yann Collet.
    BSD 2-Clause License (http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php)
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:
    
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
    copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
    in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
    distribution.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
    OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
    DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
    THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  15. The NPP library uses code from the Boost Math Toolkit,
    and is subject to the following license:

    Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003
    . . . .
    
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or 
    organization obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying 
    documentation covered by this license (the "Software") to use, 
    reproduce, display, distribute, execute, and transmit the Software, 
    and to prepare derivative works of the Software, and to permit 
    third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to do so, all 
    subject to the following:
    
    The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, 
    including the above license grant, this restriction and the following 
    disclaimer, must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole 
    or in part, and all derivative works of the Software, unless such 
    copies or derivative works are solely in the form of machine-executable 
    object code generated by a source language processor.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
    EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF 
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND 
    NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR 
    ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OR 
    OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR 
    OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.  

  16. Portions of the Nsight Eclipse Edition is subject to the
    following license:

    The Eclipse Foundation makes available all content in this plug-in
    ("Content"). Unless otherwise indicated below, the Content is provided
    to you under the terms and conditions of the Eclipse Public License
    Version 1.0 ("EPL"). A copy of the EPL is available at http://
    www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html. For purposes of the EPL, "Program"
    will mean the Content.
    
    If you did not receive this Content directly from the Eclipse
    Foundation, the Content is being redistributed by another party
    ("Redistributor") and different terms and conditions may apply to your
    use of any object code in the Content. Check the Redistributor's
    license that was provided with the Content. If no such license exists,
    contact the Redistributor. Unless otherwise indicated below, the terms
    and conditions of the EPL still apply to any source code in the
    Content and such source code may be obtained at http://www.eclipse.org.  


2. NVIDIA Corporation CUDA Samples End User License Agreement
-------------------------------------------------------------

BY DOWNLOADING THE SOFTWARE AND OTHER AVAILABLE MATERIALS, YOU
("DEVELOPER" or "LICENSEE") AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE FOLLOWING
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF DEVELOPER DOES NOT
AGREE TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, THEN DO
NOT DOWNLOAD THE SOFTWARE AND MATERIALS.

The materials available for download to Developers may include
software in both sample source ("Source Code") and object code
("Object Code") versions, documentation ("Documentation"),
certain art work ("Art Assets") and other materials
(collectively, these materials referred to herein as
"Materials"). Except as expressly indicated herein, all terms
and conditions of this Agreement apply to all of the
Materials.

Except as expressly set forth herein, NVIDIA owns all of the
Materials and makes them available to Developer only under the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.


2.1. License

Subject to the terms of this Agreement, NVIDIA hereby grants
to Developer a royalty-free, non-exclusive license to possess
and to use the Materials. Developer may install and use
multiple copies of the Materials on a shared computer or
concurrently on different computers, and make multiple back-up
copies of the Materials, solely for Licensee's use within
Licensee's Enterprise. "Enterprise" shall mean individual use
by Licensee or any legal entity (such as a corporation or
university) and the subsidiaries it owns by more than 50
percent.

The following terms apply to the specified type of Material.


2.1.1. Source Code

Developer shall have the right to modify and create derivative
works with the Source Code. Developer shall own any derivative
works ("Derivatives") it creates to the Source Code, provided
that Developer uses the Materials in accordance with the terms
and conditions of this Agreement. Developer may distribute the
Derivatives, provided that all NVIDIA copyright notices and
trademarks are propagated and used properly and the
Derivatives include the following statement: "This software
contains source code provided by NVIDIA Corporation."


2.1.2. Object Code

Developer agrees not to disassemble, decompile or reverse
engineer the Object Code versions of any of the Materials.
Developer acknowledges that certain of the Materials provided
in Object Code version may contain third party components that
may be subject to restrictions, and expressly agrees not to
attempt to modify or distribute such Materials without first
receiving consent from NVIDIA.


2.1.3. Art Assets

Developer shall have the right to modify and create
Derivatives of the Art Assets, but may not distribute any of
the Art Assets or Derivatives created therefrom without
NVIDIA's prior written consent.


2.1.4. Additional Licensing Obligations

Licensee acknowledges and agrees that its use of certain third
party components included with the SOFTWARE may be subject to
additional licensing terms and conditions as set forth or
referenced in Attachment C of this Agreement.


2.1.5. No Other License

No rights or licenses with respect to any proprietary
information or patent, copyright, trade secret or other
intellectual property right owned or controlled by NVIDIA are
granted by NVIDIA to Developer under this Agreement, expressly
or by implication, except as expressly provided in this
Agreement. Licensee represents and warrants that any and all
third party licensing and/or royalty payment obligations in
connection with Licensee's use of the H.264 video codecs are
solely the responsibility of Licensee.


2.1.6. Intellectual Property Ownership

All rights, title, interest and copyrights in and to the
Materials (including but not limited to all images,
photographs, animations, video, audio, music, text, and other
information incorporated into the Materials), are owned by
NVIDIA, or its suppliers. The Materials are protected by
copyright laws and international treaty provisions.
Accordingly, Developer is required to treat the Materials like
any other copyrighted material, except as otherwise allowed
pursuant to this Agreement.


2.2. Term of Agreement

This Agreement is effective until (i) automatically terminated
if Developer fails to comply with any of the terms and
conditions of this Agreement; or (ii) terminated by NVIDIA.
NVIDIA may terminate this Agreement (and with it, all of
Developer's right to the Materials) immediately upon written
notice (which may include email) to Developer, with or without
cause. For the sake of clarity, Licensee may continue to use
the Derivatives created pursuant to this Agreement, after the
termination or expiration of this Agreement.


2.3. Defensive Suspension

If Developer commences or participates in any legal proceeding
against NVIDIA, then NVIDIA may, in its sole discretion,
suspend or terminate all license grants and any other rights
provided under this Agreement during the pendency of such
legal proceedings.


2.4. No Support

NVIDIA has no obligation to support or to continue providing
or updating any of the Materials.


2.5. No Warranty

THE SOFTWARE AND ANY OTHER MATERIALS PROVIDED BY NVIDIA TO
DEVELOPER HEREUNDER ARE PROVIDED "AS IS." NVIDIA DISCLAIMS ALL
WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.


2.6. Limitation of Liability

NVIDIA SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO DEVELOPER, DEVELOPER'S
CUSTOMERS, OR ANY OTHER PERSON OR ENTITY CLAIMING THROUGH OR
UNDER DEVELOPER FOR ANY LOSS OF PROFITS, INCOME, SAVINGS, OR
ANY OTHER CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, PUNITIVE, DIRECT
OR INDIRECT DAMAGES (WHETHER IN AN ACTION IN CONTRACT, TORT OR
BASED ON A WARRANTY), EVEN IF NVIDIA HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THESE LIMITATIONS SHALL APPLY
NOTWITHSTANDING ANY FAILURE OF THE ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY
LIMITED REMEDY. IN NO EVENT SHALL NVIDIA'S AGGREGATE LIABILITY
TO DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER PERSON OR ENTITY CLAIMING THROUGH OR
UNDER DEVELOPER EXCEED THE AMOUNT OF MONEY ACTUALLY PAID BY
DEVELOPER TO NVIDIA FOR THE SOFTWARE OR ANY OTHER MATERIALS.


2.7. Applicable Law

This Agreement shall be deemed to have been made in, and shall
be construed pursuant to, the laws of the State of Delaware.
The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the
International Sale of Goods is specifically disclaimed.


2.8. Feedback

Notwithstanding any Non-Disclosure Agreement executed by and
between the parties, the parties agree that in the event
Licensee or NVIDIA provides Feedback (as defined below) to the
other party on how to design, implement, or improve the
SOFTWARE or Licensee's product(s) for use with the SOFTWARE,
the following terms and conditions apply the Feedback:


2.8.1. Exchange of Feedback

Both parties agree that neither party has an obligation to
give the other party any suggestions, comments or other
feedback, whether verbally or in written or source code form,
relating to (i) the SOFTWARE; (ii) Licensee's products; (iii)
Licensee's use of the SOFTWARE; or (iv)
optimization/interoperability of Licensee's product with the
SOFTWARE (collectively defined as "Feedback"). In the event
either party provides Feedback to the other party, the party
receiving the Feedback may use any Feedback that the other
party voluntarily provides to improve the (i) SOFTWARE or
other related NVIDIA technologies, respectively for the
benefit of NVIDIA; or (ii) Licensee's product or other related
Licensee technologies, respectively for the benefit of
Licensee. Accordingly, if either party provides Feedback to
the other party, both parties agree that the other party and
its respective licensees may freely use, reproduce, license,
distribute, and otherwise commercialize the Feedback in the
(i) SOFTWARE or other related technologies; or (ii) Licensee's
products or other related technologies, respectively, without
the payment of any royalties or fees.


2.8.2. Residual Rights

Licensee agrees that NVIDIA shall be free to use any general
knowledge, skills and experience, (including, but not limited
to, ideas, concepts, know-how, or techniques) ("Residuals"),
contained in the (i) Feedback provided by Licensee to NVIDIA;
(ii) Licensee's products shared or disclosed to NVIDIA in
connection with the Feedback; or (c) Licensee's confidential
information voluntarily provided to NVIDIA in connection with
the Feedback, which are retained in the memories of NVIDIA's
employees, agents, or contractors who have had access to such
Residuals. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, NVIDIA's employees, agents, or contractors shall
not be prevented from using Residuals as part of such
employee's, agent's or contractor's general knowledge, skills,
experience, talent, and/or expertise. NVIDIA shall not have
any obligation to limit or restrict the assignment of such
employees, agents or contractors or to pay royalties for any
work resulting from the use of Residuals.


2.8.3. Disclaimer of Warranty

FEEDBACK FROM EITHER PARTY IS PROVIDED FOR THE OTHER PARTY'S
USE "AS IS" AND BOTH PARTIES DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS,
IMPLIED AND STATUTORY INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NONINFRINGEMENT. BOTH PARTIES DO NOT
REPRESENT OR WARRANT THAT THE FEEDBACK WILL MEET THE OTHER
PARTY'S REQUIREMENTS OR THAT THE OPERATION OR IMPLEMENTATION
OF THE FEEDBACK WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE.


2.8.4. No Liability for Consequential Damages

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT
SHALL EITHER PARTY OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
(INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS
PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION,
OR ANY OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS) ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR
INABILITY TO USE THE FEEDBACK, EVEN IF THE OTHER PARTY HAS
BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.


2.9. Freedom of Action

Developer agrees that this Agreement is nonexclusive and
NVIDIA may currently or in the future be developing software,
other technology or confidential information internally, or
receiving confidential information from other parties that
maybe similar to the Feedback and Developer's confidential
information (as provided in subsection 2 above), which may be
provided to NVIDIA in connection with Feedback by Developer.
Accordingly, Developer agrees that nothing in this Agreement
will be construed as a representation or inference that NVIDIA
will not develop, design, manufacture, acquire, market
products, or have products developed, designed, manufactured,
acquired, or marketed for NVIDIA, that compete with the
Developer's products or confidential information.


2.10. Restricted Rights Notice

Materials have been developed entirely at private expense and
is commercial computer software provided with RESTRICTED
RIGHTS. Use, duplication or disclosure by the U.S. Government
or a U.S. Government subcontractor is subject to the
restrictions set forth in the license agreement under which
Materials was obtained pursuant to DFARS 227.7202-3(a) or as
set forth in subparagraphs (c)(1) and (2) of the Commercial
Computer Software - Restricted Rights clause at FAR 52.227-19,
as applicable. Contractor/manufacturer is NVIDIA, 2701 San
Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, CA 95050.


2.11. Miscellaneous

If any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with, or
cannot be fully enforced under, the law, such provision will
be construed as limited to the extent necessary to be
consistent with and fully enforceable under the law. This
Agreement is the final, complete and exclusive agreement
between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof, and
supersedes all prior or contemporaneous understandings and
agreements relating to such subject matter, whether oral or
written. This Agreement may only be modified in writing signed
by an authorized officer of NVIDIA. Developer agrees that it
will not ship, transfer or export the Materials into any
country, or use the Materials in any manner, prohibited by the
United States Bureau of Industry and Security or any export
laws, restrictions or regulations.


2.12. Attachment C


Additional Licensing Obligations

Licensee's use of the "libfreeimage" third party component is
subject to the following terms and conditions:

The contents of this file are subject to the FreeImage Public
License Version 1.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file
except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy
of the License at
http://freeimage.sourceforge.net/freeimage-license.txt.

Software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied. See the License for the specific language governing
rights and limitations under the License.


3. NVIDIA Driver License for Customer Use of NVIDIA Software
on Windows
------------------------------------------------------------


IMPORTANT NOTICE -- READ CAREFULLY:
-----------------------------------

This License For Customer Use of NVIDIA Software ("LICENSE")
is the agreement which governs use of the software of NVIDIA
Corporation and its subsidiaries ("NVIDIA") downloadable
herefrom, including GeForce Experience, computer software
(including drivers downloaded in connection with GeForce
Experience) and associated printed materials ("SOFTWARE"). By
downloading, installing, copying, or otherwise using the
SOFTWARE, you agree to be bound by the terms of this LICENSE.
If you do not agree to the terms of this LICENSE, do not
download the SOFTWARE.


RECITALS:
---------

Use of NVIDIA's products requires three elements: the
SOFTWARE, the hardware on a graphics controller board, and a
personal computer (collectively, such hardware and personal
computer is defined herein as "CUSTOMER SYSTEM"). The SOFTWARE
is protected by copyright laws and international copyright
treaties, as well as other intellectual property laws and
treaties. The SOFTWARE is not sold, and instead is only
licensed for use, strictly in accordance with this document.
The hardware is protected by various patents, and is sold, but
this LICENSE does not cover that sale, since it may not
necessarily be sold as a package with the SOFTWARE. This
LICENSE sets forth the terms and conditions of the SOFTWARE
LICENSE only.


3.1. Definitions


3.1.1. Customer

Customer means the entity or individual that downloads and/or
installs the SOFTWARE.


3.2. Grant of License


3.2.1. Rights and Limitations of Grant

Provided Customer complies with the terms in this LICENSE,
NVIDIA hereby grants Customer the following non-exclusive,
non-transferable right to use the SOFTWARE in the manner and
for the purposes described in the associated printed
materials, with the following limitations:


3.2.1.1. Rights

Customer may install and use multiple copies of the SOFTWARE
on a shared computer or concurrently on different computers,
and make multiple back-up copies of the SOFTWARE, solely for
Customer's use within Customer's Enterprise. "Enterprise"
shall mean individual use by Customer or any legal entity
(such as a corporation or university) and the subsidiaries it
owns by more than fifty percent (50%).


3.2.1.2. Limitations

No Reverse Engineering

Customer may not reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble
the SOFTWARE, nor attempt in any other manner to obtain the
source code. You may not remove any copyright notices from the
SOFTWARE. The SOFTWARE is licensed as a single product. Its
component parts may not be separated for use on more than one
computer, nor otherwise used separately from the other parts.

No Rental

Customer may not rent or lease the SOFTWARE to someone else.


3.2.2. Additional Information

7-Zip. The SOFTWARE includes the 7-Zip software program
("7-Zip"). Use of the source code for 7-Zip is subject to the
terms and conditions at www.7-zip.org.


3.3. Consent to Collection and Use of Information

Customer hereby acknowledges that the SOFTWARE accesses and
collects non-personally identifiable information about
Customer and CUSTOMER SYSTEM as well as configures CUSTOMER
SYSTEM in order to (a) properly optimize such system for use
with the SOFTWARE, (b) deliver content through the SOFTWARE,
and (c) improve NVIDIA products and services. Information
collected by the SOFTWARE includes, but is not limited to,
CUSTOMER SYSTEM'S (a) hardware configuration and ID, (b)
operating system and driver configuration, (c) installed games
and applications, (d) games and applications settings,
performance, and usage data, and (e) usage metrics of the
SOFTWARE. To the extent that Customer uses the SOFTWARE,
Customer hereby consents to all of the foregoing, and
represents and warrants that Customer has the right to grant
such consent. In addition, Customer agrees that Customer is
solely responsible for maintaining appropriate data backups
and system restore points for CUSTOMER SYSTEM, and that NVIDIA
will have no responsibility for any damage or loss to CUSTOMER
SYSTEM (including loss of data or access) arising from or
relating to (a) any changes to the configuration, application
settings, environment variables, registry, drivers, BIOS, or
other attributes of CUSTOMER SYSTEM (or any part of CUSTOMER
SYSTEM) initiated through the SOFTWARE; or (b) installation of
any SOFTWARE or third party software patches initiated through
the SOFTWARE. The SOFTWARE may contain links to websites and
services. We encourage you to review the privacy statements on
those sites and services that you choose to visit so that you
can understand how they may collect, use and share your
personal information. NVIDIA is not responsible for the
privacy statements or practices of sites and services
controlled by other companies or organizations.

Customer and CUSTOMER SYSTEM information collection rules can
be configured on the "Preferences" tab of GeForce Experience.
For more information on NVIDIA's collection and use of
information policies for this SOFTWARE, visit
http://www.geforce.com/drivers/geforce-experience/faq.

Customer represents and warrants that the non-personally
identifiable information that Customer has furnished in
connection with its registration for the SOFTWARE is complete
and accurate. Customer also acknowledges that from time to
time, NVIDIA may collect, use, and disclose such information
about Customer and/or Customer's system in connection with the
SOFTWARE in accordance with NVIDIA's privacy policy, available
at URL http://www.nvidia.com/object/privacy_policy.html.


3.4. Termination

This LICENSE will automatically terminate if Customer fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions hereof. In such
event, Customer must destroy all copies of the SOFTWARE and
all of its component parts.

Defensive Suspension. If Customer commences or participates in
any legal proceeding against NVIDIA, then NVIDIA may, in its
sole discretion, suspend or terminate all license grants and
any other rights provided under this LICENSE during the
pendency of such legal proceedings.


3.5. Copyright

All title and copyrights in and to the SOFTWARE (including but
not limited to all images, photographs, animations, video,
audio, music, text, and other information incorporated into
the SOFTWARE), the accompanying printed materials, and any
copies of the SOFTWARE, are owned by NVIDIA, or its licensors
or suppliers. The SOFTWARE is protected by copyright laws and
international treaty provisions. Accordingly, Customer is
required to treat the SOFTWARE like any other copyrighted
material, except as otherwise allowed pursuant to this LICENSE
and that it may make one copy of the SOFTWARE solely for
backup or archive purposes. The algorithms, structure,
organization and source code of the Software are the valuable
trade secrets and confidential information of NVIDIA. Except
as otherwise expressly provided herein, neither this LICENSE
nor NVIDIA grants Customer any express or implied right under
any NVIDIA patents, copyrights, trademarks, or other
intellectual property rights in the SOFTWARE, and all rights,
title and interest in and to the SOFTWARE not expressly
granted are reserved by NVIDIA or its licensors or suppliers.


3.6. Applicable Law

This LICENSE shall be deemed to have been made in, and shall
be construed pursuant to, the laws of the State of Delaware.
The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the
International Sale of Goods is specifically disclaimed. The
state and/or federal courts residing in Santa Clara County,
California shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any dispute
or claim arising out of this Agreement. Customer may not
export the SOFTWARE in violation of applicable export laws and
regulations.


3.7. Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitations on Liability


3.7.1. No Warranties

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT
PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, NVIDIA AND ITS SUPPLIERS DISCLAIM
ALL WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
NONINFRINGEMENT, TITLE AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
Without limiting the foregoing, you are solely responsible for
determining and verifying that the SOFTWARE that you obtain
and install is the appropriate version for your model of
graphics controller board, operating system, and computer
hardware.


3.7.2. No Liability for Consequential Damages

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT
SHALL NVIDIA OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF
BUSINESS PROFITS, LOSS OF DATA, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF
BUSINESS INFORMATION, OR ANY OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS) ARISING OUT
OF THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NVIDIA
HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. SOME
JURISDICTIONS PROHIBIT EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
FOR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES,
SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. YOU MAY ALSO
HAVE OTHER LEGAL RIGHTS THAT VARY FROM JURISDICTION TO
JURISDICTION. NOTWITHSTANDING THE FOREGOING, NVIDIA'S
AGGREGATE LIABILITY ARISING OUT OF THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT
SHALL NOT EXCEED ONE THOUSAND UNITED STATES DOLLARS
(USD$1000).


3.8. Miscellaneous

If any provision of this LICENSE is inconsistent with, or
cannot be fully enforced under, the law, such provision will
be construed as limited to the extent necessary to be
consistent with and fully enforceable under the law. This
LICENSE is the final, complete and exclusive agreement between
the parties relating to the subject matter hereof, and
supersedes all prior or contemporaneous understandings and
agreements relating to such subject matter, whether oral or
written. This LICENSE may only be modified in writing signed
by an authorized officer of NVIDIA. Customer agrees that it
will not ship, transfer or export the SOFTWARE into any
country, or use the SOFTWARE in any manner, prohibited by the
United States Bureau of Industry and Security or any export
laws, restrictions or regulations.


4. NVIDIA Driver License for Customer Use of NVIDIA Software
on Linux and Mac OSX
------------------------------------------------------------


IMPORTANT NOTICE -- READ CAREFULLY:
-----------------------------------

This License For Customer Use of NVIDIA Software ("LICENSE")
is the agreement which governs use of the software of NVIDIA
Corporation and its subsidiaries ("NVIDIA") downloadable
herefrom, including computer software and associated printed
materials ("SOFTWARE"). By downloading, installing, copying,
or otherwise using the SOFTWARE, you agree to be bound by the
terms of this LICENSE. If you do not agree to the terms of
this LICENSE, do not download the SOFTWARE.


RECITALS:
---------

Use of NVIDIA's products requires three elements: the
SOFTWARE, the hardware on a graphics controller board, and a
personal computer. The SOFTWARE is protected by copyright laws
and international copyright treaties, as well as other
intellectual property laws and treaties. The SOFTWARE is not
sold, and instead is only licensed for use, strictly in
accordance with this document. The hardware is protected by
various patents, and is sold, but this agreement does not
cover that sale, since it may not necessarily be sold as a
package with the SOFTWARE. This agreement sets forth the terms
and conditions of the SOFTWARE LICENSE only.


4.1. DEFINITIONS


4.1.1. Customer

Customer means the entity or individual that downloads the
SOFTWARE.


4.2. GRANT OF LICENSE


4.2.1. Rights and Limitations of Grant

NVIDIA hereby grants Customer the following non-exclusive,
non-transferable right to use the SOFTWARE, with the following
limitations:


4.2.1.1. Rights

Customer may install and use multiple copies of the SOFTWARE
on a shared computer or concurrently on different computers,
and make multiple back-up copies of the SOFTWARE, solely for
Customer's use within Customer's Enterprise. "Enterprise"
shall mean individual use by Customer or any legal entity
(such as a corporation or university) and the subsidiaries it
owns by more than fifty percent (50%).


4.2.1.2. Linux/FreeBSD Exception

Notwithstanding the foregoing terms of Section 4.2.1.1,
SOFTWARE designed exclusively for use on the Linux or FreeBSD
operating systems, or other operating systems derived from the
source code to these operating systems, may be copied and
redistributed, provided that the binary files thereof are not
modified in any way (except for unzipping of compressed
files).


4.2.1.3. Limitations

No Reverse Engineering

Customer may not reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble
the SOFTWARE, nor attempt in any other manner to obtain the
source code.

No Separation of Components

The SOFTWARE is licensed as a single product. Its component
parts may not be separated for use on more than one computer,
nor otherwise used separately from the other parts.

No Rental

Customer may not rent or lease the SOFTWARE to someone else.


4.3. TERMINATION

This LICENSE will automatically terminate if Customer fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions hereof. In such
event, Customer must destroy all copies of the SOFTWARE and
all of its component parts.

Defensive Suspension. If Customer commences or participates in
any legal proceeding against NVIDIA, then NVIDIA may, in its
sole discretion, suspend or terminate all license grants and
any other rights provided under this LICENSE during the
pendency of such legal proceedings.


4.4. COPYRIGHT

All title and copyrights in and to the SOFTWARE (including but
not limited to all images, photographs, animations, video,
audio, music, text, and other information incorporated into
the SOFTWARE), the accompanying printed materials, and any
copies of the SOFTWARE, are owned by NVIDIA, or its suppliers.
The SOFTWARE is protected by copyright laws and international
treaty provisions. Accordingly, Customer is required to treat
the SOFTWARE like any other copyrighted material, except as
otherwise allowed pursuant to this LICENSE and that it may
make one copy of the SOFTWARE solely for backup or archive
purposes.


4.5. APPLICABLE LAW

This agreement shall be deemed to have been made in, and shall
be construed pursuant to, the laws of the State of California.


4.6. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES AND LIMITATION ON LIABILITY


4.6.1. No Warranties

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE
SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND NVIDIA AND ITS SUPPLIERS
DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


4.6.2. No Liability for Consequential Damages

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT
SHALL NVIDIA OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
(INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS
PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION,
OR ANY OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS) ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR
INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NVIDIA HAS BEEN ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.


4.7. MISCELLANEOUS

The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the
International Sale of Goods is specifically disclaimed. If any
provision of this LICENSE is inconsistent with, or cannot be
fully enforced under, the law, such provision will be
construed as limited to the extent necessary to be consistent
with and fully enforceable under the law. This agreement is
the final, complete and exclusive agreement between the
parties relating to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes
all prior or contemporaneous understandings and agreements
relating to such subject matter, whether oral or written.
Customer agrees that it will not ship, transfer or export the
SOFTWARE into any country, or use the SOFTWARE in any manner,
prohibited by the United States Bureau of Export
Administration or any export laws, restrictions or
regulations. This LICENSE may only be modified in writing
signed by an authorized officer of NVIDIA.


5. NVIDIA Nsight Development Platform, Visual Studio Edition
Software License Agreement (Windows only)
------------------------------------------------------------


IMPORTANT - READ BEFORE COPYING, INSTALLING OR USING
----------------------------------------------------

Do not use or load this software and any associated materials
provided by NVIDIA on its extranet (collectively the
"Software") until You have carefully read the following terms
and conditions. By loading or using the Software, You agree to
fully comply with the terms and conditions of this Software
License Agreement ("Agreement") by and between NVIDIA
Corporation, a Delaware corporation with its principal place
of business at 2701 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara,
California 95050 U.S.A. ("NVIDIA"), and You. If You do not
wish to so agree, do not install or use the Software.

For the purposes of this Agreement:

"Licensee," "You" and/or "Your" shall mean, collectively and
individually, Original Equipment Manufacturers, Independent
Hardware Vendors, Independent Software Vendors, and End-Users
of the Software pursuant to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement.

"Intellectual Property Rights" shall mean all proprietary
rights, including all patents, trademarks, copyrights,
know-how, trade secrets, mask works, including all
applications and registrations thereto, and any other similar
protected rights in any country.


5.1. Grant of License

NVIDIA agrees to provide the Software and any associated
materials pursuant to this Agreement. Subject to the terms of
this Agreement, NVIDIA grants to You a nonexclusive,
transferable, worldwide, revocable, limited, royalty-free,
fully paid-up license under NVIDIA's copyrights to install,
deploy, use, have used execute, reproduce, display, perform,
run, the object code of the Software, to create Your products
to interoperate with NVIDIA hardware and software.

Unless otherwise authorized in the Agreement, You shall not
otherwise assign, sublicense, lease, or in any other way
transfer or disclose Software to any third party. Unless
otherwise authorized in the Agreement, You shall not reverse-
compile, disassemble, reverse-engineer, or in any manner
attempt to derive the source code of the Software from the
object code portions of the Software.

Except as expressly stated in this Agreement, no license or
right is granted to You directly or by implication,
inducement, estoppels or otherwise. NVIDIA shall have the
right to inspect or have an independent auditor inspect Your
relevant records to verify Your compliance with the terms and
conditions of this Agreement.


5.2. Confidentiality

If applicable, any exchange of Confidential Information (as
defined in the NDA) shall be made pursuant to the terms and
conditions of a separately signed Non-Disclosure Agreement
("NDA") by and between NVIDIA and You. For the sake of
clarity, You agree that (a) the Software; and (b) Your use of
the Software/participation in the Software's pre-production
release is considered Confidential Information of NVIDIA.

If You wish to have a third party consultant or subcontractor
("Contractor") perform work on Your behalf which involves
access to or use of Software, You shall obtain a written
confidentiality agreement from the Contractor which contains
terms and obligations with respect to access to or use of
Software no less restrictive than those set forth in this
Agreement and excluding any distribution or sublicense rights,
and use for any other purpose than permitted in this
Agreement. Otherwise, You shall not disclose the terms or
existence of this Agreement or use NVIDIA's name in any
publications, advertisements, or other announcements without
NVIDIA's prior written consent. Unless otherwise provided in
this Agreement, You do not have any rights to use any NVIDIA
trademarks or logos.


5.3. Ownership of Software and Intellectual Property Rights

All rights, title and interest to all copies of the Software
remain with NVIDIA, subsidiaries, licensors, or its suppliers.
The Software is copyrighted and protected by the laws of the
United States and other countries, and international treaty
provisions. You may not remove any copyright notices from the
Software. NVIDIA may make changes to the Software, or to items
referenced therein, at any time and without notice, but is not
obligated to support or update the Software. Except as
otherwise expressly provided, NVIDIA grants no express or
implied right under any NVIDIA patents, copyrights,
trademarks, or other intellectual property rights.

You have no obligation to give NVIDIA any suggestions,
comments or other feedback ("Feedback") relating to the
Software. However, NVIDIA may use and include any Feedback
that You voluntarily provide to improve the Software or other
related NVIDIA technologies. Accordingly, if You provide
Feedback, You agree NVIDIA and its licensees may freely use,
reproduce, license, distribute, and otherwise commercialize
the Feedback in the Software or other related technologies
without the payment of any royalties or fees. You also agree
that the Software may collect application specific session
data and target device information that shall be sent to
NVIDIA, solely for use by NVIDIA in improving the Software.


5.4. No Warranties

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. NVIDIA does not warrant or assume responsibility for
the accuracy or completeness of any information, text,
graphics, links or other items contained within the Software.
NVIDIA does not represent that errors or other defects will be
identified or corrected.


5.5. Limitation of Liability

EXCEPT WITH RESPECT TO THE MISUSE OF THE OTHER PARTY'S
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OR DISCLOSURE OF THE OTHER PARTY'S
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION IN BREACH OF THIS AGREEMENT, IN NO
EVENT SHALL NVIDIA, SUBSIDIARIES, LICENSORS, OR ITS SUPPLIERS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER (INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, INDIRECT, LOST PROFITS, CONSEQUENTIAL, BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION OR LOST INFORMATION) ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR
INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NVIDIA HAS BEEN ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. SOME JURISDICTIONS
PROHIBIT EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF LIABILITY FOR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OR CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, SO THE
ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. YOU MAY ALSO HAVE OTHER
LEGAL RIGHTS THAT VARY FROM JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION.
NOTWITHSTANDING THE FOREGOING, NVIDIA'S AGGREGATE LIABILITY
ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL NOT EXCEED ONE HUNDRED
UNITED STATES DOLLARS (USD$100).


5.6. Term

This Agreement and the licenses granted hereunder shall be
effective as of the date You install/download the Software
("Effective Date") and continue perpetually, unless terminated
earlier in accordance with the "Termination" provision of this
Agreement.


5.7. Termination

NVIDIA may terminate this Agreement at any time if You violate
its terms. Upon termination, You will immediately destroy the
Software or return all copies of the Software to NVIDIA, and
certify to NVIDIA in writing that such actions have been
completed.


5.8. Miscellaneous


5.8.1. Survival

Those provisions in this Agreement, which by their nature need
to survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement,
shall survive termination or expiration of the Agreement,
including but not limited to Section  5.2, Section 5.3,
Section 5.4, Section 5.5, Section 5.7, and Section 5.8.


5.8.2. Applicable Laws

Claims arising under this Agreement shall be governed by the
laws of Delaware, excluding its principles of conflict of laws
and the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the Sale of
Goods. The state and/or federal courts residing in Santa Clara
County, California shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any
dispute or claim arising out of this Agreement. You may not
export the Software in violation of applicable export laws and
regulations.


5.8.3. Amendment

The Agreement shall not be modified except by a written
agreement that names this Agreement and any provision to be
modified, is dated subsequent to the Effective Date, and is
signed by duly authorized representatives of both parties.


5.8.4. No Waiver

No failure or delay on the part of either party in the
exercise of any right, power or remedy under this Agreement or
under law, or to insist upon or enforce performance by the
other party of any of the provisions of this Agreement or
under law, shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any
single or partial exercise of any right, power or remedy
preclude other or further exercise thereof, or the exercise of
any other right, power or remedy; rather the provision, right,
or remedy shall be and remain in full force and effect.


5.8.5. No Assignment

This Agreement and Licensee's rights and obligations herein,
may not be assigned, subcontracted, delegated, or otherwise
transferred by Licensee without NVIDIA's prior written
consent, and any attempted assignment, subcontract,
delegation, or transfer in violation of the foregoing will be
null and void. The terms of this Agreement shall be binding
upon Licensee's assignees.


5.8.6. Government Restricted Rights

The parties acknowledge that the Software is subject to U.S.
export control laws and regulations. The parties agree to
comply with all applicable international and national laws
that apply to the Software, including the U.S. Export
Administration Regulations, as well as end-user, end-use and
destination restrictions issued by U.S. and other governments.

The Software has been developed entirely at private expense
and is commercial computer software provided with RESTRICTED
RIGHTS. Use, duplication or disclosure of the Software by the
U.S. Government or a U.S. Government subcontractor is subject
to the restrictions set forth in the Agreement under which the
Software was obtained pursuant to DFARS 227.7202-3(a) or as
set forth in subparagraphs (c)(1) and (2) of the Commercial
Computer Software - Restricted Rights clause at FAR 52.227-19,
as applicable. Contractor/manufacturer is NVIDIA, 2701 San
Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, CA 95050. Use of the Software
by the Government constitutes acknowledgment of NVIDIA's
proprietary rights therein.


5.8.7. Independent Contractors

Licensee's relationship to NVIDIA is that of an independent
contractor, and neither party is an agent or partner of the
other. Licensee will not have, and will not represent to any
third party that it has, any authority to act on behalf of
NVIDIA.


5.8.8. Severability

If for any reason a court of competent jurisdiction finds any
provision of this Agreement, or portion thereof, to be
unenforceable, that provision of the Agreement will be
enforced to the maximum extent permissible so as to affect the
intent of the parties, and the remainder of this Agreement
will continue in full force and effect. This Agreement has
been negotiated by the parties and their respective counsel
and will be interpreted fairly in accordance with its terms
and without any strict construction in favor of or against
either party.


5.8.9. Entire Agreement

This Agreement and NDA constitute the entire agreement between
the parties with respect to the subject matter contemplated
herein, and merges all prior and contemporaneous
communications.

MICROSOFT SOFTWARE LICENSE TERMS
MICROSOFT DIRECTX END USER RUNTIME

These license terms are an agreement between Microsoft Corporation (or based on
where you live, one of its affiliates) and you.  Please read them.  They apply
to the software named above, which includes the media on which you received it,
if any.  The terms also apply to any Microsoft

* updates,
* supplements,
* Internet-based services, and 
* support services

for this software, unless other terms accompany those items.  If so, those
terms apply.

BY USING THE SOFTWARE, YOU ACCEPT THESE TERMS.  IF YOU DO NOT ACCEPT THEM, DO
NOT USE THE SOFTWARE.

If you comply with these license terms, you have the rights below.

1. INSTALLATION AND USE RIGHTS.  You may install and use any number of copies
of the software on your devices.

2. SCOPE OF LICENSE.  The software is licensed, not sold. This agreement only
gives you some rights to use the software.  Microsoft reserves all other
rights.  Unless applicable law gives you more rights despite this limitation,
you may use the software only as expressly permitted in this agreement.  In
doing so, you must comply with any technical limitations in the software that
only allow you to use it in certain ways.  You may not

* work around any technical limitations in the software;
* reverse engineer, decompile or disassemble the software, except and only to
  the extent that applicable law expressly permits, despite this limitation;
* make more copies of the software than specified in this agreement or allowed
  by applicable law, despite this limitation;
* publish the software for others to copy;
* rent, lease or lend the software;
* transfer the software or this agreement to any third party; or
* use the software for commercial software hosting services.

3. BACKUP COPY.  You may make one backup copy of the software.  You may use it
only to reinstall the software.

4. DOCUMENTATION.  Any person that has valid access to your computer or
internal network may copy and use the documentation for your internal,
reference purposes.

5. EXPORT RESTRICTIONS.  The software is subject to United States export laws
and regulations.  You must comply with all domestic and international export
laws and regulations that apply to the software.  These laws include
restrictions on destinations, end users and end use.  For additional
information, see www.microsoft.com/exporting.

6. SUPPORT SERVICES. Because this software is "as is," we may not provide
support services for it.

7. ENTIRE AGREEMENT.  This agreement, and the terms for supplements, updates,
Internet-based services and support services that you use, are the entire
agreement for the software and support services.

8. APPLICABLE LAW.

a. United States.  If you acquired the software in the United States,
Washington state law governs the interpretation of this agreement and applies
to claims for breach of it, regardless of conflict of laws principles.  The
laws of the state where you live govern all other claims, including claims
under state consumer protection laws, unfair competition laws, and in tort.

b. Outside the United States.  If you acquired the software in any other
country, the laws of that country apply.

9. LEGAL EFFECT.  This agreement describes certain legal rights.  You may have
other rights under the laws of your country.  You may also have rights with
respect to the party from whom you acquired the software.  This agreement does
not change your rights under the laws of your country if the laws of your
country do not permit it to do so.

10. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.   THE SOFTWARE IS LICENSED "AS-IS."  YOU BEAR THE
RISK OF USING IT.  MICROSOFT GIVES NO EXPRESS WARRANTIES, GUARANTEES OR
CONDITIONS.  YOU MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL CONSUMER RIGHTS UNDER YOUR LOCAL LAWS
WHICH THIS AGREEMENT CANNOT CHANGE.  TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER YOUR LOCAL
LAWS, MICROSOFT EXCLUDES THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.

11. LIMITATION ON AND EXCLUSION OF REMEDIES AND DAMAGES.  YOU CAN RECOVER FROM
MICROSOFT AND ITS SUPPLIERS ONLY DIRECT DAMAGES UP TO U.S. $5.00.  YOU CANNOT
RECOVER ANY OTHER DAMAGES, INCLUDING CONSEQUENTIAL, LOST PROFITS, SPECIAL,
INDIRECT OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES.

This limitation applies to

* anything related to the software, services, content (including code) on third
  party Internet sites, or third party programs; and
* claims for breach of contract, breach of warranty, guarantee or condition,
  strict liability, negligence, or other tort to the extent permitted by
  applicable law.

It also applies even if Microsoft knew or should have known about the
possibility of the damages.  The above limitation or exclusion may not apply to
you because your country may not allow the exclusion or limitation of
incidental, consequential or other damages.

The Software contains components, as listed below that are
licensed to Licensee pursuant to the terms and conditions of
their respective End User License Agreements:

  * NVIDIA CUDA Samples

  * NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit

  * NVIDIA DirectX SDK

More information, including licensing information, about the
NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit and the NVIDIA CUDA Samples can be found
at: http://www.nvidia.com/getcuda

More information, including licensing information, about the
NVIDIA DirectX SDK can be found at:
http://developer.nvidia.com/object/sdk_home.html


6. NVIDIA CUDA General Terms
----------------------------

The Software, on the Windows platform, may collect
non-personally identifiable information for the purposes of
customizing information delivered to you and improving future
versions of the Software. Such information, including IP
address and system configuration, will only be collected on an
anonymous basis and cannot be linked to any personally
identifiable information. Personally identifiable information
such as your username or hostname is not collected.

-------------------------------------------------------------

The following software may be included in this product: Opus Codec. This software contains the following license and notice below:

Opus has a freely available specification, a BSD-licensed, high-quality reference encoder and decoder, and protective, royalty-free licenses for the required patents. The copyright and patent licenses for Opus are automatically granted to everyone and do not require application or approval. The Opus FAQ has more information on why Opus is freely licensed.

In brief:
- You can encode or decode Opus-compatible streams for any purpose at no cost.
- You can integrate the reference Opus encoder and decoder in any application, program or product, even commercially, at no cost.
- You can create your own compatible implementations of the Opus specification and give them away or sell them.
- You may not do these things if you engage on Opus-related patent litigation against any user of Opus.

Licensing details

Copyright

Specification

The specification is freely available as part of IETF RFC 6716. The RFC includes the reference implementation, which is available under the three-clause BSD license (see below).

Implementation

Both the reference implementation and the revised implementations on opus-codec.org are available under the three-clause BSD license. This BSD license is compatible with all common open source and commercial software licenses.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
- Neither the name of Internet Society, IETF or IETF Trust, nor the names of specific contributors, may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Tools

Most of the command-line Ogg-based tools that are shipped as part of the separate opus-tools package are also released under the three-clause BSD license. The only exception is the opusinfo tool, which is released under the GPLv2 license. Proprietary software developers wishing to use Opus may copy code from opusenc and opusdec, but they may not copy code from the opusinfo tool to build their applications.

Patents

Opus is covered by several patents. These patents are available under open-source-compatible, royalty-free licenses. If you are not trying to attack Opus with your patents, you will not have problems with these licenses.
Some of these licenses have been updated in the past and may be updated again in the future. However, updates never invalidate the old licenses and users are always free to rely on any of the previously available licenses. In other words, newer licenses can give more rights, but never fewer.

Xiph.Org Foundation

The Xiph.Org foundation has several patent applications on techniques used in Opus. When issued, these patents will be automatically available under the terms provided in the below license. The license covers the listed patent applications, along with any other patent or application covering Opus that is owned by Xiph.Org.

Xiph.Org Patents/Applications covered:
- US 61/284,154
- US 61/450,041
- US 61/450,053
- US 61/450,060
- and any other applicable

License Grant

Xiph.Org Foundation (Xiph) hereby grants to you a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge,royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this license) license under Licensed Patents to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, transfer, and otherwise run, modify (in a way that still complies with the Specification), and reproduce any Implementation.

Definitions. Specification means, and includes the following, both individually and collectively, (a) any standard specification of the Opus codec adopted by the IETF Codec Working Group (Standard) and (b) any reference implementation (each, a Reference Implementation) published by the IETF Codec Working Group in the request for comments (RFC) issued by the IETF for the Specification draft for which this License is issued, or any RFC that is issued as an update or new version thereof. An Implementation means any Reference Implementation, or another implementation that complies with the Specification. Licensed Patents means all patents currently owned by Xiph or acquired hereafter that Xiph has the right to license as set forth above and that are necessarily infringed by the Specification, where necessarily infringed means: in the case of (a) above, there is no commercially viable means of implementing the Specification without infringing such patent; in the case of (b) above, use of the reference implementation to the extent it infringes such patent.

Termination. If you, directly or indirectly via controlled affiliate or subsidiary, agent, or exclusive licensee, file a Claim for patent infringement against any entity alleging that an Implementation in whole or in part constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, or inducement of patent infringement (a Claim), provided that a Reference Implementation also infringes the patents asserted in the Claim, then any patent rights granted to you under this License shall automatically terminate retroactively as of the date you first received the grant. Claims made against an Implementation in part will only trigger termination if the Implementation in part was done for the purpose of combining it with other technology that complies with the Specification so that the technologys ultimate use will be consistent with the Standard as a whole.

This license is also filed on the IETF site.

Broadcom

Broadcom has both issued patents and outstanding applications covering Opus. These are available under the same license as the Xiph.Org patents. The license covers the listed patents and patent applications, along with any other patent or application covering Opus that is owned by Broadcom.

Broadcom Patents/Applications covered:
- US 61/406,106
- US 61/394,842
- US 7,353,168
- and any other applicable

License Grant

Broadcom Corporation (Broadcom) hereby grants to you a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this license) license under Licensed Patents to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, transfer, and otherwise run, modify (in a way that still complies with the Specification), and reproduce any Implementation.
Definitions. Specification means, and includes the following, both individually and collectively, (a) any standard specification of the Opus codec adopted by the IETF Codec Working Group (Standard) and (b) any reference implementation (each, a Reference Implementation) published by the IETF Codec Working Group in the request for comments (RFC) issued by the IETF for the Specification draft for which this License is issued, or any RFC that is issued as an update or new version thereof. An Implementation means any Reference Implementation, or another implementation that complies with the Specification. Licensed Patents means all patents currently owned by Broadcom or acquired hereafter that Broadcom has the right to license as set forth above and that are necessarily infringed by the Specification, where necessarily infringed means: in the case of (a) above, there is no commercially viable means of implementing the Specification without infringing such patent; in the case of (b) above, use of the reference implementation to the extent it infringes such patent.
Termination. If you, directly or indirectly via controlled affiliate or subsidiary, agent, or exclusive licensee, file a Claim for patent infringement against any entity alleging that an Implementation in whole or in part constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, or inducement of patent infringement (a Claim), provided that a Reference Implementation also infringes the patents asserted in the Claim, then any patent rights granted to you under this License shall automatically terminate retroactively as of the date you first received the grant. Claims made against an Implementation in part will only trigger termination if the Implementation in part was done for the purpose of combining it with other technology that complies with the Specification so that the technologys ultimate use will be consistent with the Standard as a whole.

This license is also filed on the IETF site.

Microsoft

Microsoft acquired patents and applications related to Opus through their purchase of Skype. These patents (and any other Microsoft might have had) are available under a different, but still royalty-free, license detailed below. The license covers the listed patent applications, along with any other patent or application covering Opus that is owned by Microsoft.

Microsoft Patents/Applications covered:
- US-2008-0201137-A1
- US-2010-0174535-A1
- US-2010-0174534-A1
- US-2010-0174547-A1
- US-2010-0174532-A1
- US-2010-0174537-A1
- US-2010-0174542-A1
- US-2010-0174531-A1
- US-2010-0174541-A1
- US-2010-0174538-A1
- US-2011-0077940-A1
- and any other applicable

Microsoft Opus Patent Terms
11-7-2012

1. Patent Terms.
1.1. Specification License. Subject to all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, I, on behalf of myself and my successors in interest and assigns, hereby grant you a non-sublicensable, perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable license to my Necessary Decoder Claims for your Specification Implementation.
1.2. Code License. Subject to all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, I, on behalf of myself and my successors in interest and assigns, hereby grant you a non-sublicensable, perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable patent license to my Necessary Reference Implementation Claims to make, use, sell, offer for sale, import or distribute a Code Implementation.
1.3. Conditions.
1.3.1. Availability. If you own or control Necessary Claims, the licenses set forth in Section 1 are subject to and will become effective starting on the date that you make a binding public irrevocable commitment to license, on reasonable and non-discriminatory royalty-free licensing terms 1) your Necessary Decoder Claims to all implementers for Specification Implementations, and 2) your Necessary Reference Implementation Claims to all implementers for Code Implementations, where the terms of this Agreement satisfy any reciprocity requirements in your reasonable and non-discriminatory royalty-free licensing terms. The promises set forth in Section 1 will remain in effect so long as you continue to make such claims available for Specification Implementations and Code Implementations under reasonable and non-discriminatory royalty-free licensing terms. In addition, as a condition of the licenses set forth in Section 1, you acknowledge and agree that you have not and will not knowingly take any action for the purpose of circumventing the conditions in this Section 1. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you are not required to make the commitments set forth in this Section 1.3.1 as a result of merely using a Specification Implementation or a Code Implementation as an end-user.
1.3.2. Additional Conditions. This license is directly from me to you and you acknowledge as a condition of benefiting from it that no rights from me are received from suppliers, distributors, or otherwise in connection with this license. This license is not an assurance (i) that any of my issued patent claims covers a Specification Implementation or Code Implementation or are enforceable or (ii) that a Specification Implementation or Code Implementation would not infringe intellectual property rights of any third party.
1.4. Termination. All rights, grants, and promises made by me to you under Section 1 are immediately terminated if you or your agent file, maintain, or voluntarily participate in a lawsuit against me or any person or entity asserting that a Specification Implementation infringes Necessary Decoder Claims or a Code Implementation infringes Necessary Reference Implementation Claims, unless that suit was in response to a corresponding suit regarding a Specification Implementation or Code Implementation first brought against you. In addition, all rights, grants, and promises made by me to you under Section 1 are terminated if you, your agent, or successor in interest seek to license Necessary Decoder Claims for Specification Implementations or Necessary Reference Implementations Claims for Code Implementations on a royalty-bearing basis, unless that royalty-bearing licensing activity is in addition to, and not in lieu of, reasonable and non-discriminatory royalty-free licensing terms for Necessary Decoder Claims for Specification Implementations or Necessary Reference Implementation Claims for Code Implementations. This Agreement may also be terminated, including back to the date of non-compliance, because of non-compliance with any other term or condition of this Agreement.
2. Patent License Commitment. On behalf of me and my successors in interest and assigns, I agree to offer alternative reasonable and non-discriminatory royalty-bearing licensing terms 1) to my Necessary Decoder Claims solely for your Specification Implementation and 2) to my Necessary Reference Implementations Claims solely for your Code Implementation.
3. Past Skype Declarations. You may, at your option, continue to rely on the terms set forth in Skypes past declarations made to the IETF for the Opus Audio Codec, subject to the terms of those declarations and in lieu of the terms of this Agreement solely for the patents set forth in those declarations.
4. Good Faith Obligations. I agree that I have not and will not knowingly take any action for the purpose of circumventing my obligations under this Agreement. In addition, I will not 1) seek an injunction or exclusion order against a) Code Implementations for Necessary Reference Implementation Claims or b) Specification Implementations for Necessary Decoder Claims or 2) require that an implementer license its patents back to me, except for Necessary Reference Implementation Claims for Code Implementations and Necessary Decoder Claims for Specification Implementations. I will not transfer Necessary Reference Implementation Claims or Necessary Decoder Claims unless the transferee is subject to these obligations.
5. Disclaimers. I expressly disclaim any warranties (express, implied, or otherwise), including implied warranties of merchantability, non-infringement, fitness for a particular purpose, or title, related to the Specification or Reference Implementation. The entire risk as to implementing or otherwise using the Specification, Specification Implementation, or Code Implementation is assumed by the implementer and user. IN NO EVENT WILL ANY PARTY BE LIABLE TO ANY OTHER PARTY FOR LOST PROFITS OR ANY FORM OF INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER FROM ANY CAUSES OF ACTION OF ANY KIND WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT, WHETHER BASED ON BREACH OF CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), OR OTHERWISE, AND WHETHER OR NOT THE OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. Nothing in this Agreement requires me to undertake a patent search.
6. Definitions.
6.1. Agreement. Agreement means this document, which sets forth the rights, grants, limitations, conditions, obligations, and disclaimers made available for the particular Specification.
6.2. Code Implementation. Code Implementation means making, using, selling, offering for sale, importing or distributing 1) the Reference Implementation, or 2) an implementation that, in the case of an encoder, produces a bitstream that can be decoded by a Specification Implementation solely to the extent it produces such a bitstream, and, in the case of decoder, is a Specification Implementation, where that Specification Implementation may also infringe Necessary Reference Implementation Claims.
6.3. Control. Control means direct or indirect control of more than 50% of the voting power to elect directors of that corporation, or for any other entity, the power to direct management of such entity.
6.4. I, Me, or My. I, me, or my refers to the party making this declaration, and any entity that I Control.
6.5. Necessary Claims. Necessary Claims means Necessary Decoder Claims and Necessary Reference Implementation Claims.
6.6. Necessary Decoder Claims. Necessary Decoder Claims are those patent claims that a party owns or controls, including those claims acquired after the date of this declaration, that are necessarily infringed by an implementation of the required portions (including the required elements of optional portions) of the decoder Specification that are described in detail and not merely referenced in the Specification.
6.7. Necessary Reference Implementation Claims. Necessary Reference Implementation Claims are those patent claims that a party owns or controls, including those claims acquired after the date of this declaration, that are necessarily infringed by the Reference Implementation. Necessary Reference Implementation Claims do not include claims that would be infringed only as a consequence of further modification of the Reference Implementation.
6.8. Reference Implementation. Reference Implementation means the implementation of the Opus encoder and/or decoder code extracted from Appendix A of the Specification.
6.9. Specification. Specification means IETF RFC 6716 dated September 2012.
6.10. Specification Implementation. Specification Implementation means making, using, selling, offering for sale, importing or distributing any conformant implementation of the decoder set forth in the Specification 1) only to the extent it implements the Specification and 2) so long as all required portions of the Specification are implemented. Specification Implementation also includes any implementation of a decoder included in subsequent versions of RFC 6716 1) only to the extent that it implements the decoder Specification, and 2) so long as all required portions of the decoder Specification are implemented.
6.11. You or Your. You, you, or your means any person or entity who exercises patent rights granted under this Agreement, and any person or entity you Control.

This license is also filed on the IETF site. The old license is still available.

Other disclosures

While Xiph.Org, Broadcom, and Microsoft filed IPR disclosures giving royalty-free licenses to their patents used in Opus, four companies that did not directly participate in the development of Opus, Qualcomm, Huawei, France Telecom, and Ericsson, filed IPR disclosures with potentially royalty-bearing terms. The IETF allows anyone (and their dog) to file an IPR disclosures if they think that their patents covers or may ultimately cover a standard. In fact, for any organization who can be said to have contributed in any (very loosely defined) way, these IPR statements are not just allowed, but required. It is thus safer for organisations to declare as much as they can. As an example, one can find similar non-free Qualcomm IPR statements on both SIP and SDP. To our advantage, however, the IETF IPR disclosure policies require companies to provide the actual patent numbers. This allows anyone to verify these claims for themselves, which is definitely a good thing.
When it comes to patents, it is difficult to say much without making lawyers nervous. However, we can say something quite direct: external counsel Dergosits & Noah has advised us that Opus can be implemented without the need to license the patents disclosed by Qualcomm, Huawei, France Telecom, or Ericsson. We can also say that Mozilla is confident enough in Opus to ship it to hundreds of millions of Firefox users. Similarly, Cisco and Google are also supporting Opus in some products. More companies are expected to do the same soon.
Mozilla invested significant legal resources into avoiding known patent thickets when designing Opus. Whenever possible, we used processes and methods that have been long known in the field and which are considered patent-free. In addition, we filed numerous patent applications on the new things we invented to help defend the Opus community. As a result, Opus is available on a royalty-free basis and can be deployed by anyone, including other open-source projects. Everyone knows this is an incredibly challenging legal environment to operate in, but we think weve succeeded.

--------

The following software may be included in this product: OpenSSL. This software contains the following license and notice below:


  LICENSE ISSUES
  ==============

  The OpenSSL toolkit stays under a double license, i.e. both the conditions of
  the OpenSSL License and the original SSLeay license apply to the toolkit.
  See below for the actual license texts.

  OpenSSL License
  ---------------

/* ====================================================================
 * Copyright (c) 1998-2017 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 *
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
 *
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
 *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
 *    distribution.
 *
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
 *    software must display the following acknowledgment:
 *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
 *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
 *
 * 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
 *    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
 *    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
 *    openssl-core@openssl.org.
 *
 * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
 *    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
 *    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
 *
 * 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
 *    acknowledgment:
 *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
 *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
 * EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
 * PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
 * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
 * NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
 * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
 * STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
 * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
 * OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
 * ====================================================================
 *
 * This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young
 * (eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim
 * Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).
 *
 */

 Original SSLeay License
 -----------------------

/* Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)
 * All rights reserved.
 *
 * This package is an SSL implementation written
 * by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).
 * The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.
 * 
 * This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as
 * the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions
 * apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA,
 * lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation
 * included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright terms
 * except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).
 * 
 * Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in
 * the code are not to be removed.
 * If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution
 * as the author of the parts of the library used.
 * This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or
 * in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.
 * 
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
 *    must display the following acknowledgement:
 *    "This product includes cryptographic software written by
 *     Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)"
 *    The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the library
 *    being used are not cryptographic related :-).
 * 4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from 
 *    the apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement:
 *    "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"
 * 
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND
 * ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
 * ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
 * FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
 * DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
 * OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
 * LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
 * OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
 * SUCH DAMAGE.
 * 
 * The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or
 * derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be
 * copied and put under another distribution licence
 * [including the GNU Public Licence.]
 */


--------

The following software may be included in this product: JSON for Modern C++. This software contains the following license and notice below:

    __ _____ _____ _____
 __|  |   __|     |   | |  JSON for Modern C++
|  |  |__   |  |  | | | |  version 2.1.1
|_____|_____|_____|_|___|  https://github.com/nlohmann/json

Licensed under the MIT License <http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>.
Copyright (c) 2013-2017 Niels Lohmann <http://nlohmann.me>.

Permission is hereby  granted, free of charge, to any  person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated  documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software  without restriction, including without  limitation the rights
to  use, copy,  modify, merge,  publish, distribute,  sublicense, and/or  sell
copies  of  the Software,  and  to  permit persons  to  whom  the Software  is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE  IS PROVIDED "AS  IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY  OF ANY KIND,  EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED,  INCLUDING BUT  NOT  LIMITED TO  THE  WARRANTIES OF  MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR  A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND  NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT  SHALL THE
AUTHORS  OR COPYRIGHT  HOLDERS  BE  LIABLE FOR  ANY  CLAIM,  DAMAGES OR  OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF  CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE  OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.


--------

The following software may be included in this product: libsodium. This software contains the following license and notice below:

/*
 * ISC License
 *
 * Copyright (c) 2013-2018
 * Frank Denis <j at pureftpd dot org>
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
 * purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
 *
 * THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
 * WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
 * MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
 * ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
 * WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
 * ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
 * OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 */